# Job

## Chapter 1
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  There was a man in the land of Uz, whose name was Job; and that man was perfect and upright, and one that feared God, and eschewed evil. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  And there were born unto him seven sons and three daughters. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  His substance also was seven thousand sheep, and three thousand camels, and five hundred yoke of oxen, and five hundred she asses, and a very great household; so that this man was the greatest of all the men of the east. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  And his sons went and feasted in their houses, every one his day; and sent and called for their three sisters to eat and to drink with them. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  And it was so, when the days of their feasting were gone about, that Job sent and sanctified them, and rose up early in the morning, and offered burnt offerings according to the number of them all: for Job said, It may be that my sons have sinned, and cursed God in their hearts. Thus did Job continually. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  Now there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the LORD, and Satan came also among them. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  And the LORD said unto Satan, Whence comest thou? Then Satan answered the LORD, and said, From going to and fro in the earth, and from walking up and down in it. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  And the LORD said unto Satan, Hast thou considered my servant Job, that there is none like him in the earth, a perfect and an upright man, one that feareth God, and escheweth evil? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  Then Satan answered the LORD, and said, Doth Job fear God for nought? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  Hast not thou made an hedge about him, and about his house, and about all that he hath on every side? thou hast blessed the work of his hands, and his substance is increased in the land. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  But put forth thine hand now, and touch all that he hath, and he will curse thee to thy face. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  And the LORD said unto Satan, Behold, all that he hath is in thy power; only upon himself put not forth thine hand. So Satan went forth from the presence of the LORD. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  And there was a day when his sons and his daughters were eating and drinking wine in their eldest brother's house: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  And there came a messenger unto Job, and said, The oxen were plowing, and the asses feeding beside them:  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  And the Sabeans fell upon them, and took them away; yea, they have slain the servants with the edge of the sword; and I only am escaped alone to tell thee. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  While he was yet speaking, there came also another, and said, The fire of God is fallen from heaven, and hath burned up the sheep, and the servants, and consumed them; and I only am escaped alone to tell thee.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  While he was yet speaking, there came also another, and said, The Chaldeans made out three bands, and fell upon the camels, and have carried them away, yea, and slain the servants with the edge of the sword; and I only am escaped alone to tell thee.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  While he was yet speaking, there came also another, and said, Thy sons and thy daughters were eating and drinking wine in their eldest brother's house: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  And, behold, there came a great wind from the wilderness, and smote the four corners of the house, and it fell upon the young men, and they are dead; and I only am escaped alone to tell thee. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  Then Job arose, and rent his mantle, and shaved his head, and fell down upon the ground, and worshipped, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  And said, Naked came I out of my mother's womb, and naked shall I return thither: the LORD gave, and the LORD hath taken away; blessed be the name of the LORD. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  In all this Job sinned not, nor charged God foolishly. <br>
## Chapter 2
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  Again there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the LORD, and Satan came also among them to present himself before the LORD. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  And the LORD said unto Satan, From whence comest thou? And Satan answered the LORD, and said, From going to and fro in the earth, and from walking up and down in it. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  And the LORD said unto Satan, Hast thou considered my servant Job, that there is none like him in the earth, a perfect and an upright man, one that feareth God, and escheweth evil? and still he holdeth fast his integrity, although thou movedst me against him, to destroy him without cause. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  And Satan answered the LORD, and said, Skin for skin, yea, all that a man hath will he give for his life. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  But put forth thine hand now, and touch his bone and his flesh, and he will curse thee to thy face. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  And the LORD said unto Satan, Behold, he is in thine hand; but save his life. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  So went Satan forth from the presence of the LORD, and smote Job with sore boils from the sole of his foot unto his crown. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  And he took him a potsherd to scrape himself withal; and he sat down among the ashes. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  Then said his wife unto him, Dost thou still retain thine integrity? curse God, and die. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  But he said unto her, Thou speakest as one of the foolish women speaketh. What? shall we receive good at the hand of God, and shall we not receive evil? In all this did not Job sin with his lips. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  Now when Job's three friends heard of all this evil that was come upon him, they came every one from his own place; Eliphaz the Temanite, and Bildad the Shuhite, and Zophar the Naamathite: for they had made an appointment together to come to mourn with him and to comfort him. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  And when they lifted up their eyes afar off, and knew him not, they lifted up their voice, and wept; and they rent every one his mantle, and sprinkled dust upon their heads toward heaven. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  So they sat down with him upon the ground seven days and seven nights, and none spake a word unto him: for they saw that his grief was very great. <br>
## Chapter 3
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  After this opened Job his mouth, and cursed his day. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  And Job spake, and said,  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  Let the day perish wherein I was born, and the night in which it was said, There is a man child conceived.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  Let that day be darkness; let not God regard it from above, neither let the light shine upon it. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  Let darkness and the shadow of death stain it; let a cloud dwell upon it; let the blackness of the day terrify it. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  As for that night, let darkness seize upon it; let it not be joined unto the days of the year, let it not come into the number of the months. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  Lo, let that night be solitary, let no joyful voice come therein. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  Let them curse it that curse the day, who are ready to raise up their mourning. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  Let the stars of the twilight thereof be dark; let it look for light, but have none; neither let it see the dawning of the day: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  Because it shut not up the doors of my mother's womb, nor hid sorrow from mine eyes.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  Why died I not from the womb? why did I not give up the ghost when I came out of the belly? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  Why did the knees prevent me? or why the breasts that I should suck?  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  For now should I have lain still and been quiet, I should have slept: then had I been at rest,  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  With kings and counsellers of the earth, which built desolate places for themselves; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  Or with princes that had gold, who filled their houses with silver: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  Or as an hidden untimely birth I had not been; as infants which never saw light. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  There the wicked cease from troubling; and there the weary be at rest. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  There the prisoners rest together; they hear not the voice of the oppressor. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  The small and great are there; and the servant is free from his master. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  Wherefore is light given to him that is in misery, and life unto the bitter in soul; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  Which long for death, but it cometh not; and dig for it more than for hid treasures; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  Which rejoice exceedingly, and are glad, when they can find the grave? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  Why is light given to a man whose way is hid, and whom God hath hedged in? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">24</span>  For my sighing cometh before I eat, and my roarings are poured out like the waters. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">25</span>  For the thing which I greatly feared is come upon me, and that which I was afraid of is come unto me. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">26</span>  I was not in safety, neither had I rest, neither was I quiet; yet trouble came. <br>
## Chapter 4
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered and said, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  If we assay to commune with thee, wilt thou be grieved? but who can withhold himself from speaking? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  Behold, thou hast instructed many, and thou hast strengthened the weak hands. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  Thy words have upholden him that was falling, and thou hast strengthened the feeble knees. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  But now it is come upon thee, and thou faintest; it toucheth thee, and thou art troubled. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  Is not this thy fear, thy confidence, thy hope, and the uprightness of thy ways?  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  Remember, I pray thee, who ever perished, being innocent? or where were the righteous cut off? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  Even as I have seen, they that plow iniquity, and sow wickedness, reap the same.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  By the blast of God they perish, and by the breath of his nostrils are they consumed.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  The roaring of the lion, and the voice of the fierce lion, and the teeth of the young lions, are broken. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  The old lion perisheth for lack of prey, and the stout lion's whelps are scattered abroad. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  Now a thing was secretly brought to me, and mine ear received a little thereof. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  In thoughts from the visions of the night, when deep sleep falleth on men, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  Fear came upon me, and trembling, which made all my bones to shake. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  Then a spirit passed before my face; the hair of my flesh stood up: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  It stood still, but I could not discern the form thereof: an image was before mine eyes, there was silence, and I heard a voice, saying, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  Shall mortal man be more just than God? shall a man be more pure than his maker? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  Behold, he put no trust in his servants; and his angels he charged with folly: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  How much less in them that dwell in houses of clay, whose foundation is in the dust, which are crushed before the moth? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  They are destroyed from morning to evening: they perish for ever without any regarding it. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  Doth not their excellency which is in them go away? they die, even without wisdom. <br>
## Chapter 5
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  Call now, if there be any that will answer thee; and to which of the saints wilt thou turn? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  For wrath killeth the foolish man, and envy slayeth the silly one. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  I have seen the foolish taking root: but suddenly I cursed his habitation. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  His children are far from safety, and they are crushed in the gate, neither is there any to deliver them. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  Whose harvest the hungry eateth up, and taketh it even out of the thorns, and the robber swalloweth up their substance. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  Although affliction cometh not forth of the dust, neither doth trouble spring out of the ground; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  Yet man is born unto trouble, as the sparks fly upward.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  I would seek unto God, and unto God would I commit my cause: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  Which doeth great things and unsearchable; marvellous things without number:  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  Who giveth rain upon the earth, and sendeth waters upon the fields:  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  To set up on high those that be low; that those which mourn may be exalted to safety. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  He disappointeth the devices of the crafty, so that their hands cannot perform their enterprise. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  He taketh the wise in their own craftiness: and the counsel of the froward is carried headlong. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  They meet with darkness in the daytime, and grope in the noonday as in the night. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  But he saveth the poor from the sword, from their mouth, and from the hand of the mighty. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  So the poor hath hope, and iniquity stoppeth her mouth. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  Behold, happy is the man whom God correcteth: therefore despise not thou the chastening of the Almighty: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  For he maketh sore, and bindeth up: he woundeth, and his hands make whole. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  He shall deliver thee in six troubles: yea, in seven there shall no evil touch thee. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  In famine he shall redeem thee from death: and in war from the power of the sword. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  Thou shalt be hid from the scourge of the tongue: neither shalt thou be afraid of destruction when it cometh. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  At destruction and famine thou shalt laugh: neither shalt thou be afraid of the beasts of the earth. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  For thou shalt be in league with the stones of the field: and the beasts of the field shall be at peace with thee. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">24</span>  And thou shalt know that thy tabernacle shall be in peace; and thou shalt visit thy habitation, and shalt not sin. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">25</span>  Thou shalt know also that thy seed shall be great, and thine offspring as the grass of the earth. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">26</span>  Thou shalt come to thy grave in a full age, like as a shock of corn cometh in in his season. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">27</span>  Lo this, we have searched it, so it is; hear it, and know thou it for thy good. <br>
## Chapter 6
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  But Job answered and said, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  Oh that my grief were throughly weighed, and my calamity laid in the balances together!  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  For now it would be heavier than the sand of the sea: therefore my words are swallowed up. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  For the arrows of the Almighty are within me, the poison whereof drinketh up my spirit: the terrors of God do set themselves in array against me.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  Doth the wild ass bray when he hath grass? or loweth the ox over his fodder?  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  Can that which is unsavoury be eaten without salt? or is there any taste in the white of an egg? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  The things that my soul refused to touch are as my sorrowful meat. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  Oh that I might have my request; and that God would grant me the thing that I long for! <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  Even that it would please God to destroy me; that he would let loose his hand, and cut me off! <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  Then should I yet have comfort; yea, I would harden myself in sorrow: let him not spare; for I have not concealed the words of the Holy One. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  What is my strength, that I should hope? and what is mine end, that I should prolong my life? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  Is my strength the strength of stones? or is my flesh of brass? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  Is not my help in me? and is wisdom driven quite from me? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  To him that is afflicted pity should be shewed from his friend; but he forsaketh the fear of the Almighty. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  My brethren have dealt deceitfully as a brook, and as the stream of brooks they pass away; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  Which are blackish by reason of the ice, and wherein the snow is hid: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  What time they wax warm, they vanish: when it is hot, they are consumed out of their place. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  The paths of their way are turned aside; they go to nothing, and perish. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  The troops of Tema looked, the companies of Sheba waited for them. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  They were confounded because they had hoped; they came thither, and were ashamed. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  For now ye are nothing; ye see my casting down, and are afraid. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  Did I say, Bring unto me? or, Give a reward for me of your substance? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  Or, Deliver me from the enemy's hand? or, Redeem me from the hand of the mighty? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">24</span>  Teach me, and I will hold my tongue: and cause me to understand wherein I have erred. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">25</span>  How forcible are right words! but what doth your arguing reprove?  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">26</span>  Do ye imagine to reprove words, and the speeches of one that is desperate, which are as wind? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">27</span>  Yea, ye overwhelm the fatherless, and ye dig a pit for your friend.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">28</span>  Now therefore be content, look upon me; for it is evident unto you if I lie.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">29</span>  Return, I pray you, let it not be iniquity; yea, return again, my righteousness is in it. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">30</span>  Is there iniquity in my tongue? cannot my taste discern perverse things? <br>
## Chapter 7
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  Is there not an appointed time to man upon earth? are not his days also like the days of an hireling? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  As a servant earnestly desireth the shadow, and as an hireling looketh for the reward of his work: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  So am I made to possess months of vanity, and wearisome nights are appointed to me. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  When I lie down, I say, When shall I arise, and the night be gone? and I am full of tossings to and fro unto the dawning of the day. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  My flesh is clothed with worms and clods of dust; my skin is broken, and become loathsome. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  My days are swifter than a weaver's shuttle, and are spent without hope. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  O remember that my life is wind: mine eye shall no more see good. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  The eye of him that hath seen me shall see me no more: thine eyes are upon me, and I am not. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  As the cloud is consumed and vanisheth away: so he that goeth down to the grave shall come up no more. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  He shall return no more to his house, neither shall his place know him any more. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  Therefore I will not refrain my mouth; I will speak in the anguish of my spirit; I will complain in the bitterness of my soul. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  Am I a sea, or a whale, that thou settest a watch over me? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  When I say, My bed shall comfort me, my couch shall ease my complaint; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  Then thou scarest me with dreams, and terrifiest me through visions: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  So that my soul chooseth strangling, and death rather than my life. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  I loathe it; I would not live alway: let me alone; for my days are vanity. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  What is man, that thou shouldest magnify him? and that thou shouldest set thine heart upon him?  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  And that thou shouldest visit him every morning, and try him every moment? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  How long wilt thou not depart from me, nor let me alone till I swallow down my spittle?  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  I have sinned; what shall I do unto thee, O thou preserver of men? why hast thou set me as a mark against thee, so that I am a burden to myself?  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  And why dost thou not pardon my transgression, and take away mine iniquity? for now shall I sleep in the dust; and thou shalt seek me in the morning, but I shall not be. <br>
## Chapter 8
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  Then answered Bildad the Shuhite, and said, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  How long wilt thou speak these things? and how long shall the words of thy mouth be like a strong wind? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  Doth God pervert judgment? or doth the Almighty pervert justice? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  If thy children have sinned against him, and he have cast them away for their transgression; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  If thou wouldest seek unto God betimes, and make thy supplication to the Almighty; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  If thou wert pure and upright; surely now he would awake for thee, and make the habitation of thy righteousness prosperous. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  Though thy beginning was small, yet thy latter end should greatly increase.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  For enquire, I pray thee, of the former age, and prepare thyself to the search of their fathers: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  (For we are but of yesterday, and know nothing, because our days upon earth are a shadow:)  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  Shall not they teach thee, and tell thee, and utter words out of their heart?  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  Can the rush grow up without mire? can the flag grow without water? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  Whilst it is yet in his greenness, and not cut down, it withereth before any other herb. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  So are the paths of all that forget God; and the hypocrite's hope shall perish: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  Whose hope shall be cut off, and whose trust shall be a spider's web. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  He shall lean upon his house, but it shall not stand: he shall hold it fast, but it shall not endure. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  He is green before the sun, and his branch shooteth forth in his garden. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  His roots are wrapped about the heap, and seeth the place of stones. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  If he destroy him from his place, then it shall deny him, saying, I have not seen thee. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  Behold, this is the joy of his way, and out of the earth shall others grow. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  Behold, God will not cast away a perfect man, neither will he help the evil doers: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  Till he fill thy mouth with laughing, and thy lips with rejoicing. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  They that hate thee shall be clothed with shame; and the dwelling place of the wicked shall come to nought. <br>
## Chapter 9
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  Then Job answered and said, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  I know it is so of a truth: but how should man be just with God? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  If he will contend with him, he cannot answer him one of a thousand. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  He is wise in heart, and mighty in strength: who hath hardened himself against him, and hath prospered? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  Which removeth the mountains, and they know not: which overturneth them in his anger. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  Which shaketh the earth out of her place, and the pillars thereof tremble. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  Which commandeth the sun, and it riseth not; and sealeth up the stars.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  Which alone spreadeth out the heavens, and treadeth upon the waves of the sea. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  Which maketh Arcturus, Orion, and Pleiades, and the chambers of the south.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  Which doeth great things past finding out; yea, and wonders without number.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  Lo, he goeth by me, and I see him not: he passeth on also, but I perceive him not. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  Behold, he taketh away, who can hinder him? who will say unto him, What doest thou? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  If God will not withdraw his anger, the proud helpers do stoop under him. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  How much less shall I answer him, and choose out my words to reason with him? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  Whom, though I were righteous, yet would I not answer, but I would make supplication to my judge. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  If I had called, and he had answered me; yet would I not believe that he had hearkened unto my voice. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  For he breaketh me with a tempest, and multiplieth my wounds without cause. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  He will not suffer me to take my breath, but filleth me with bitterness. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  If I speak of strength, lo, he is strong: and if of judgment, who shall set me a time to plead? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  If I justify myself, mine own mouth shall condemn me: if I say, I am perfect, it shall also prove me perverse. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  Though I were perfect, yet would I not know my soul: I would despise my life. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  This is one thing, therefore I said it, He destroyeth the perfect and the wicked. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  If the scourge slay suddenly, he will laugh at the trial of the innocent. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">24</span>  The earth is given into the hand of the wicked: he covereth the faces of the judges thereof; if not, where, and who is he? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">25</span>  Now my days are swifter than a post: they flee away, they see no good. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">26</span>  They are passed away as the swift ships: as the eagle that hasteth to the prey. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">27</span>  If I say, I will forget my complaint, I will leave off my heaviness, and comfort myself: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">28</span>  I am afraid of all my sorrows, I know that thou wilt not hold me innocent. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">29</span>  If I be wicked, why then labour I in vain? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">30</span>  If I wash myself with snow water, and make my hands never so clean;  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">31</span>  Yet shalt thou plunge me in the ditch, and mine own clothes shall abhor me. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">32</span>  For he is not a man, as I am, that I should answer him, and we should come together in judgment.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">33</span>  Neither is there any daysman betwixt us, that might lay his hand upon us both.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">34</span>  Let him take his rod away from me, and let not his fear terrify me: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">35</span>  Then would I speak, and not fear him; but it is not so with me. <br>
## Chapter 10
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  My soul is weary of my life; I will leave my complaint upon myself; I will speak in the bitterness of my soul. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  I will say unto God, Do not condemn me; shew me wherefore thou contendest with me. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  Is it good unto thee that thou shouldest oppress, that thou shouldest despise the work of thine hands, and shine upon the counsel of the wicked? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  Hast thou eyes of flesh? or seest thou as man seeth? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  Are thy days as the days of man? are thy years as man's days, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  That thou enquirest after mine iniquity, and searchest after my sin? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  Thou knowest that I am not wicked; and there is none that can deliver out of thine hand. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  Thine hands have made me and fashioned me together round about; yet thou dost destroy me. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  Remember, I beseech thee, that thou hast made me as the clay; and wilt thou bring me into dust again? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  Hast thou not poured me out as milk, and curdled me like cheese? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  Thou hast clothed me with skin and flesh, and hast fenced me with bones and sinews. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  Thou hast granted me life and favour, and thy visitation hath preserved my spirit. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  And these things hast thou hid in thine heart: I know that this is with thee. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  If I sin, then thou markest me, and thou wilt not acquit me from mine iniquity. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  If I be wicked, woe unto me; and if I be righteous, yet will I not lift up my head. I am full of confusion; therefore see thou mine affliction; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  For it increaseth. Thou huntest me as a fierce lion: and again thou shewest thyself marvellous upon me. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  Thou renewest thy witnesses against me, and increasest thine indignation upon me; changes and war are against me.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  Wherefore then hast thou brought me forth out of the womb? Oh that I had given up the ghost, and no eye had seen me! <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  I should have been as though I had not been; I should have been carried from the womb to the grave.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  Are not my days few? cease then, and let me alone, that I may take comfort a little,  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  Before I go whence I shall not return, even to the land of darkness and the shadow of death; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  A land of darkness, as darkness itself; and of the shadow of death, without any order, and where the light is as darkness. <br>
## Chapter 11
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  Then answered Zophar the Naamathite, and said, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  Should not the multitude of words be answered? and should a man full of talk be justified? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  Should thy lies make men hold their peace? and when thou mockest, shall no man make thee ashamed? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  For thou hast said, My doctrine is pure, and I am clean in thine eyes. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  But oh that God would speak, and open his lips against thee; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  And that he would shew thee the secrets of wisdom, that they are double to that which is! Know therefore that God exacteth of thee less than thine iniquity deserveth. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  Canst thou by searching find out God? canst thou find out the Almighty unto perfection? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  It is as high as heaven; what canst thou do? deeper than hell; what canst thou know? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  The measure thereof is longer than the earth, and broader than the sea. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  If he cut off, and shut up, or gather together, then who can hinder him? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  For he knoweth vain men: he seeth wickedness also; will he not then consider it? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  For vain man would be wise, though man be born like a wild ass's colt. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  If thou prepare thine heart, and stretch out thine hands toward him; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  If iniquity be in thine hand, put it far away, and let not wickedness dwell in thy tabernacles. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  For then shalt thou lift up thy face without spot; yea, thou shalt be stedfast, and shalt not fear: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  Because thou shalt forget thy misery, and remember it as waters that pass away: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  And thine age shall be clearer than the noonday; thou shalt shine forth, thou shalt be as the morning.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  And thou shalt be secure, because there is hope; yea, thou shalt dig about thee, and thou shalt take thy rest in safety. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  Also thou shalt lie down, and none shall make thee afraid; yea, many shall make suit unto thee.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  But the eyes of the wicked shall fail, and they shall not escape, and their hope shall be as the giving up of the ghost.  <br>
## Chapter 12
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  And Job answered and said, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  No doubt but ye are the people, and wisdom shall die with you. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  But I have understanding as well as you; I am not inferior to you: yea, who knoweth not such things as these? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  I am as one mocked of his neighbour, who calleth upon God, and he answereth him: the just upright man is laughed to scorn. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  He that is ready to slip with his feet is as a lamp despised in the thought of him that is at ease. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  The tabernacles of robbers prosper, and they that provoke God are secure; into whose hand God bringeth abundantly. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  But ask now the beasts, and they shall teach thee; and the fowls of the air, and they shall tell thee: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  Or speak to the earth, and it shall teach thee: and the fishes of the sea shall declare unto thee. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  Who knoweth not in all these that the hand of the LORD hath wrought this? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  In whose hand is the soul of every living thing, and the breath of all mankind. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  Doth not the ear try words? and the mouth taste his meat? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  With the ancient is wisdom; and in length of days understanding. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  With him is wisdom and strength, he hath counsel and understanding. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  Behold, he breaketh down, and it cannot be built again: he shutteth up a man, and there can be no opening. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  Behold, he withholdeth the waters, and they dry up: also he sendeth them out, and they overturn the earth. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  With him is strength and wisdom: the deceived and the deceiver are his. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  He leadeth counsellers away spoiled, and maketh the judges fools. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  He looseth the bond of kings, and girdeth their loins with a girdle. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  He leadeth princes away spoiled, and overthroweth the mighty.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  He removeth away the speech of the trusty, and taketh away the understanding of the aged. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  He poureth contempt upon princes, and weakeneth the strength of the mighty.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  He discovereth deep things out of darkness, and bringeth out to light the shadow of death.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  He increaseth the nations, and destroyeth them: he enlargeth the nations, and straiteneth them again. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">24</span>  He taketh away the heart of the chief of the people of the earth, and causeth them to wander in a wilderness where there is no way. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">25</span>  They grope in the dark without light, and he maketh them to stagger like a drunken man. <br>
## Chapter 13
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  Lo, mine eye hath seen all this, mine ear hath heard and understood it. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  What ye know, the same do I know also: I am not inferior unto you. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  Surely I would speak to the Almighty, and I desire to reason with God. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  But ye are forgers of lies, ye are all physicians of no value. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  O that ye would altogether hold your peace! and it should be your wisdom. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  Hear now my reasoning, and hearken to the pleadings of my lips. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  Will ye speak wickedly for God? and talk deceitfully for him?  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  Will ye accept his person? will ye contend for God? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  Is it good that he should search you out? or as one man mocketh another, do ye so mock him?  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  He will surely reprove you, if ye do secretly accept persons.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  Shall not his excellency make you afraid? and his dread fall upon you? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  Your remembrances are like unto ashes, your bodies to bodies of clay. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  Hold your peace, let me alone, that I may speak, and let come on me what will. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  Wherefore do I take my flesh in my teeth, and put my life in mine hand? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  Though he slay me, yet will I trust in him: but I will maintain mine own ways before him. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  He also shall be my salvation: for an hypocrite shall not come before him. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  Hear diligently my speech, and my declaration with your ears. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  Behold now, I have ordered my cause; I know that I shall be justified. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  Who is he that will plead with me? for now, if I hold my tongue, I shall give up the ghost. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  Only do not two things unto me: then will I not hide myself from thee. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  Withdraw thine hand far from me: and let not thy dread make me afraid. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  Then call thou, and I will answer: or let me speak, and answer thou me. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  How many are mine iniquities and sins? make me to know my transgression and my sin. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">24</span>  Wherefore hidest thou thy face, and holdest me for thine enemy? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">25</span>  Wilt thou break a leaf driven to and fro? and wilt thou pursue the dry stubble? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">26</span>  For thou writest bitter things against me, and makest me to possess the iniquities of my youth. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">27</span>  Thou puttest my feet also in the stocks, and lookest narrowly unto all my paths; thou settest a print upon the heels of my feet. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">28</span>  And he, as a rotten thing, consumeth, as a garment that is moth eaten. <br>
## Chapter 14
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  Man that is born of a woman is of few days, and full of trouble.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  He cometh forth like a flower, and is cut down: he fleeth also as a shadow, and continueth not. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  And dost thou open thine eyes upon such an one, and bringest me into judgment with thee?  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  Who can bring a clean thing out of an unclean? not one.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  Seeing his days are determined, the number of his months are with thee, thou hast appointed his bounds that he cannot pass; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  Turn from him, that he may rest, till he shall accomplish, as an hireling, his day. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  For there is hope of a tree, if it be cut down, that it will sprout again, and that the tender branch thereof will not cease. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  Though the root thereof wax old in the earth, and the stock thereof die in the ground; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  Yet through the scent of water it will bud, and bring forth boughs like a plant. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  But man dieth, and wasteth away: yea, man giveth up the ghost, and where is he? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  As the waters fail from the sea, and the flood decayeth and drieth up: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  So man lieth down, and riseth not: till the heavens be no more, they shall not awake, nor be raised out of their sleep. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  O that thou wouldest hide me in the grave, that thou wouldest keep me secret, until thy wrath be past, that thou wouldest appoint me a set time, and remember me! <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  If a man die, shall he live again? all the days of my appointed time will I wait, till my change come. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  Thou shalt call, and I will answer thee: thou wilt have a desire to the work of thine hands. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  For now thou numberest my steps: dost thou not watch over my sin? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  My transgression is sealed up in a bag, and thou sewest up mine iniquity. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  And surely the mountain falling cometh to nought, and the rock is removed out of his place. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  The waters wear the stones: thou washest away the things which grow out of the dust of the earth; and thou destroyest the hope of man. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  Thou prevailest for ever against him, and he passeth: thou changest his countenance, and sendest him away. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  His sons come to honour, and he knoweth it not; and they are brought low, but he perceiveth it not of them. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  But his flesh upon him shall have pain, and his soul within him shall mourn. <br>
## Chapter 15
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  Then answered Eliphaz the Temanite, and said,  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  Should a wise man utter vain knowledge, and fill his belly with the east wind? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  Should he reason with unprofitable talk? or with speeches wherewith he can do no good?  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  Yea, thou castest off fear, and restrainest prayer before God.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  For thy mouth uttereth thine iniquity, and thou choosest the tongue of the crafty. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  Thine own mouth condemneth thee, and not I: yea, thine own lips testify against thee. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  Art thou the first man that was born? or wast thou made before the hills? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  Hast thou heard the secret of God? and dost thou restrain wisdom to thyself? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  What knowest thou, that we know not? what understandest thou, which is not in us? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  With us are both the grayheaded and very aged men, much elder than thy father. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  Are the consolations of God small with thee? is there any secret thing with thee? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  Why doth thine heart carry thee away? and what do thy eyes wink at, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  That thou turnest thy spirit against God, and lettest such words go out of thy mouth? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  What is man, that he should be clean? and he which is born of a woman, that he should be righteous? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  Behold, he putteth no trust in his saints; yea, the heavens are not clean in his sight. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  How much more abominable and filthy is man, which drinketh iniquity like water? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  I will shew thee, hear me; and that which I have seen I will declare; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  Which wise men have told from their fathers, and have not hid it: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  Unto whom alone the earth was given, and no stranger passed among them. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  The wicked man travaileth with pain all his days, and the number of years is hidden to the oppressor. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  A dreadful sound is in his ears: in prosperity the destroyer shall come upon him. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  He believeth not that he shall return out of darkness, and he is waited for of the sword. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  He wandereth abroad for bread, saying, Where is it? he knoweth that the day of darkness is ready at his hand. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">24</span>  Trouble and anguish shall make him afraid; they shall prevail against him, as a king ready to the battle.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">25</span>  For he stretcheth out his hand against God, and strengtheneth himself against the Almighty. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">26</span>  He runneth upon him, even on his neck, upon the thick bosses of his bucklers:  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">27</span>  Because he covereth his face with his fatness, and maketh collops of fat on his flanks.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">28</span>  And he dwelleth in desolate cities, and in houses which no man inhabiteth, which are ready to become heaps. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">29</span>  He shall not be rich, neither shall his substance continue, neither shall he prolong the perfection thereof upon the earth. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">30</span>  He shall not depart out of darkness; the flame shall dry up his branches, and by the breath of his mouth shall he go away. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">31</span>  Let not him that is deceived trust in vanity: for vanity shall be his recompence. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">32</span>  It shall be accomplished before his time, and his branch shall not be green. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">33</span>  He shall shake off his unripe grape as the vine, and shall cast off his flower as the olive. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">34</span>  For the congregation of hypocrites shall be desolate, and fire shall consume the tabernacles of bribery. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">35</span>  They conceive mischief, and bring forth vanity, and their belly prepareth deceit. <br>
## Chapter 16
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  Then Job answered and said, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  I have heard many such things: miserable comforters are ye all. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  Shall vain words have an end? or what emboldeneth thee that thou answerest? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  I also could speak as ye do: if your soul were in my soul's stead, I could heap up words against you, and shake mine head at you. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  But I would strengthen you with my mouth, and the moving of my lips should asswage your grief. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  Though I speak, my grief is not asswaged: and though I forbear, what am I eased? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  But now he hath made me weary: thou hast made desolate all my company. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  And thou hast filled me with wrinkles, which is a witness against me: and my leanness rising up in me beareth witness to my face. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  He teareth me in his wrath, who hateth me: he gnasheth upon me with his teeth; mine enemy sharpeneth his eyes upon me. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  They have gaped upon me with their mouth; they have smitten me upon the cheek reproachfully; they have gathered themselves together against me. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  God hath delivered me to the ungodly, and turned me over into the hands of the wicked.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  I was at ease, but he hath broken me asunder: he hath also taken me by my neck, and shaken me to pieces, and set me up for his mark. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  His archers compass me round about, he cleaveth my reins asunder, and doth not spare; he poureth out my gall upon the ground.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  He breaketh me with breach upon breach, he runneth upon me like a giant.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  I have sewed sackcloth upon my skin, and defiled my horn in the dust. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  My face is foul with weeping, and my eyelids is the shadow of death; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  Not for any injustice in mine hands: also my prayer is pure. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  O earth, cover not thou my blood, and let my cry have no place. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  Also now, behold, my witness is in heaven, and my record is on high. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  My friends scorn me: but mine eye poureth out tears unto God. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  O that one might plead for a man with God, as a man pleadeth for his neighbour! <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  When a few years are come, then I shall go the way whence I shall not return. <br>
## Chapter 17
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  My breath is corrupt, my days are extinct, the graves are ready for me. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  Are there not mockers with me? and doth not mine eye continue in their provocation? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  Lay down now, put me in a surety with thee; who is he that will strike hands with me? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  For thou hast hid their heart from understanding: therefore shalt thou not exalt them. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  He that speaketh flattery to his friends, even the eyes of his children shall fail. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  He hath made me also a byword of the people; and aforetime I was as a tabret. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  Mine eye also is dim by reason of sorrow, and all my members are as a shadow. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  Upright men shall be astonied at this, and the innocent shall stir up himself against the hypocrite. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  The righteous also shall hold on his way, and he that hath clean hands shall be stronger and stronger. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  But as for you all, do ye return, and come now: for I cannot find one wise man among you. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  My days are past, my purposes are broken off, even the thoughts of my heart.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  They change the night into day: the light is short because of darkness. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  If I wait, the grave is mine house: I have made my bed in the darkness.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  I have said to corruption, Thou art my father: to the worm, Thou are my mother, and my sister.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  And where is now my hope? as for my hope, who shall see it? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  They shall go down to the bars of the pit, when our rest together is in the dust. <br>
## Chapter 18
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  Then answered Bildad the Shuhite, and said, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  How long will it be ere ye make an end of words? mark, and afterwards we will speak. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  Wherefore are we counted as beasts, and reputed vile in your sight? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  He teareth himself in his anger: shall the earth be forsaken for thee? and shall the rock be removed out of his place? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  Yea, the light of the wicked shall be put out, and the spark of his fire shall not shine. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  The light shall be dark in his tabernacle, and his candle shall be put out with him. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  The steps of his strength shall be straitened, and his own counsel shall cast him down. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  For he is cast into a net by his own feet, and he walketh upon a snare.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  The gin shall take him by the heel, and the robber shall prevail against him. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  The snare is laid for him in the ground, and a trap for him in the way.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  Terrors shall make him afraid on every side, and shall drive him to his feet.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  His strength shall be hungerbitten, and destruction shall be ready at his side. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  It shall devour the strength of his skin: even the firstborn of death shall devour his strength. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  His confidence shall be rooted out of his tabernacle, and it shall bring him to the king of terrors. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  It shall dwell in his tabernacle, because it is none of his: brimstone shall be scattered upon his habitation. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  His roots shall be dried up beneath, and above shall his branch be cut off. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  His remembrance shall perish from the earth, and he shall have no name in the street. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  He shall be driven from light into darkness, and chased out of the world. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  He shall neither have son nor nephew among his people, nor any remaining in his dwellings. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  They that come after him shall be astonied at his day, as they that went before were affrighted. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  Surely such are the dwellings of the wicked, and this is the place of him that knoweth not God. <br>
## Chapter 19
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  Then Job answered and said, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  How long will ye vex my soul, and break me in pieces with words? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  These ten times have ye reproached me: ye are not ashamed that ye make yourselves strange to me. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  And be it indeed that I have erred, mine error remaineth with myself. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  If indeed ye will magnify yourselves against me, and plead against me my reproach: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  Know now that God hath overthrown me, and hath compassed me with his net. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  Behold, I cry out of wrong, but I am not heard: I cry aloud, but there is no judgment. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  He hath fenced up my way that I cannot pass, and he hath set darkness in my paths. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  He hath stripped me of my glory, and taken the crown from my head.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  He hath destroyed me on every side, and I am gone: and mine hope hath he removed like a tree. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  He hath also kindled his wrath against me, and he counteth me unto him as one of his enemies.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  His troops come together, and raise up their way against me, and encamp round about my tabernacle.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  He hath put my brethren far from me, and mine acquaintance are verily estranged from me. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  My kinsfolk have failed, and my familiar friends have forgotten me. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  They that dwell in mine house, and my maids, count me for a stranger: I am an alien in their sight. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  I called my servant, and he gave me no answer; I intreated him with my mouth. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  My breath is strange to my wife, though I intreated for the children's sake of mine own body. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  Yea, young children despised me; I arose, and they spake against me. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  All my inward friends abhorred me: and they whom I loved are turned against me. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  My bone cleaveth to my skin and to my flesh, and I am escaped with the skin of my teeth. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  Have pity upon me, have pity upon me, O ye my friends; for the hand of God hath touched me. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  Why do ye persecute me as God, and are not satisfied with my flesh? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  Oh that my words were now written! oh that they were printed in a book! <br><span style="font-size:larger;">24</span>  That they were graven with an iron pen and lead in the rock for ever! <br><span style="font-size:larger;">25</span>  For I know that my redeemer liveth, and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">26</span>  And though after my skin worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I see God: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">27</span>  Whom I shall see for myself, and mine eyes shall behold, and not another; though my reins be consumed within me. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">28</span>  But ye should say, Why persecute we him, seeing the root of the matter is found in me? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">29</span>  Be ye afraid of the sword: for wrath bringeth the punishments of the sword, that ye may know there is a judgment. <br>
## Chapter 20
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  Then answered Zophar the Naamathite, and said, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  Therefore do my thoughts cause me to answer, and for this I make haste.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  I have heard the check of my reproach, and the spirit of my understanding causeth me to answer. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  Knowest thou not this of old, since man was placed upon earth,  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  That the triumphing of the wicked is short, and the joy of the hypocrite but for a moment?  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  Though his excellency mount up to the heavens, and his head reach unto the clouds; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  Yet he shall perish for ever like his own dung: they which have seen him shall say, Where is he? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  He shall fly away as a dream, and shall not be found: yea, he shall be chased away as a vision of the night. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  The eye also which saw him shall see him no more; neither shall his place any more behold him. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  His children shall seek to please the poor, and his hands shall restore their goods. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  His bones are full of the sin of his youth, which shall lie down with him in the dust. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  Though wickedness be sweet in his mouth, though he hide it under his tongue; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  Though he spare it, and forsake it not; but keep it still within his mouth: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  Yet his meat in his bowels is turned, it is the gall of asps within him. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  He hath swallowed down riches, and he shall vomit them up again: God shall cast them out of his belly. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  He shall suck the poison of asps: the viper's tongue shall slay him. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  He shall not see the rivers, the floods, the brooks of honey and butter. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  That which he laboured for shall he restore, and shall not swallow it down: according to his substance shall the restitution be, and he shall not rejoice therein. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  Because he hath oppressed and hath forsaken the poor; because he hath violently taken away an house which he builded not; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  Surely he shall not feel quietness in his belly, he shall not save of that which he desired. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  There shall none of his meat be left; therefore shall no man look for his goods. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  In the fulness of his sufficiency he shall be in straits: every hand of the wicked shall come upon him. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  When he is about to fill his belly, God shall cast the fury of his wrath upon him, and shall rain it upon him while he is eating. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">24</span>  He shall flee from the iron weapon, and the bow of steel shall strike him through. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">25</span>  It is drawn, and cometh out of the body; yea, the glittering sword cometh out of his gall: terrors are upon him.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">26</span>  All darkness shall be hid in his secret places: a fire not blown shall consume him; it shall go ill with him that is left in his tabernacle. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">27</span>  The heaven shall reveal his iniquity; and the earth shall rise up against him.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">28</span>  The increase of his house shall depart, and his goods shall flow away in the day of his wrath.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">29</span>  This is the portion of a wicked man from God, and the heritage appointed unto him by God. <br>
## Chapter 21
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  But Job answered and said, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  Hear diligently my speech, and let this be your consolations. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  Suffer me that I may speak; and after that I have spoken, mock on. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  As for me, is my complaint to man? and if it were so, why should not my spirit be troubled? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  Mark me, and be astonished, and lay your hand upon your mouth. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  Even when I remember I am afraid, and trembling taketh hold on my flesh. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  Wherefore do the wicked live, become old, yea, are mighty in power? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  Their seed is established in their sight with them, and their offspring before their eyes. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  Their houses are safe from fear, neither is the rod of God upon them. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  Their bull gendereth, and faileth not; their cow calveth, and casteth not her calf. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  They send forth their little ones like a flock, and their children dance. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  They take the timbrel and harp, and rejoice at the sound of the organ. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  They spend their days in wealth, and in a moment go down to the grave. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  Therefore they say unto God, Depart from us; for we desire not the knowledge of thy ways. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  What is the Almighty, that we should serve him? and what profit should we have, if we pray unto him? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  Lo, their good is not in their hand: the counsel of the wicked is far from me. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  How oft is the candle of the wicked put out! and how oft cometh their destruction upon them! God distributeth sorrows in his anger. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  They are as stubble before the wind, and as chaff that the storm carrieth away.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  God layeth up his iniquity for his children: he rewardeth him, and he shall know it. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  His eyes shall see his destruction, and he shall drink of the wrath of the Almighty.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  For what pleasure hath he in his house after him, when the number of his months is cut off in the midst?  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  Shall any teach God knowledge? seeing he judgeth those that are high. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  One dieth in his full strength, being wholly at ease and quiet. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">24</span>  His breasts are full of milk, and his bones are moistened with marrow. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">25</span>  And another dieth in the bitterness of his soul, and never eateth with pleasure. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">26</span>  They shall lie down alike in the dust, and the worms shall cover them. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">27</span>  Behold, I know your thoughts, and the devices which ye wrongfully imagine against me. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">28</span>  For ye say, Where is the house of the prince? and where are the dwelling places of the wicked? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">29</span>  Have ye not asked them that go by the way? and do ye not know their tokens, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">30</span>  That the wicked is reserved to the day of destruction? they shall be brought forth to the day of wrath. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">31</span>  Who shall declare his way to his face? and who shall repay him what he hath done? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">32</span>  Yet shall he be brought to the grave, and shall remain in the tomb. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">33</span>  The clods of the valley shall be sweet unto him, and every man shall draw after him, as there are innumerable before him. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">34</span>  How then comfort ye me in vain, seeing in your answers there remaineth falsehood? <br>
## Chapter 22
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered and said, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  Can a man be profitable unto God, as he that is wise may be profitable unto himself? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  Is it any pleasure to the Almighty, that thou art righteous? or is it gain to him that thou makest thy ways perfect? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  Will he reprove thee for fear of thee? will he enter with thee into judgment? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  Is not thy wickedness great? and thine iniquities infinite? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  For thou hast taken a pledge from thy brother for nought, and stripped the naked of their clothing.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  Thou hast not given water to the weary to drink, and thou hast withholden bread from the hungry. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  But as for the mighty man, he had the earth; and the honourable man dwelt in it.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  Thou has sent widows away empty, and the arms of the fatherless have been broken.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  Therefore snares are round about thee, and sudden fear troubleth thee; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  Or darkness, that thou canst not see; and abundance of waters cover thee. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  Is not God in the height of heaven? and behold the height of the stars, how high they are! <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  And thou sayest, How doth God know? can he judge through the dark cloud? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  Thick clouds are a covering to him, that he seeth not; and he walketh in the circuit of heaven. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  Hast thou marked the old way which wicked men have trodden? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  Which were cut down out of time, whose foundation was overflown with a flood: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  Which said unto God, Depart from us: and what can the Almighty do for them? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  Yet he filled their houses with good things: but the counsel of the wicked is far from me. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  The righteous see it, and are glad: and the innocent laugh them to scorn. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  Whereas our substance is not cut down, but the remnant of them the fire consumeth. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  Acquaint now thyself with him, and be at peace: thereby good shall come unto thee. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  Receive, I pray thee, the law from his mouth, and lay up his words in thine heart.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  If thou return to the Almighty, thou shalt be built up, thou shalt put away iniquity far from thy tabernacles. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">24</span>  Then shalt thou lay up gold as dust, and the gold of Ophir as the stones of the brooks.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">25</span>  Yea, the Almighty shall be thy defence, and thou shalt have plenty of silver.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">26</span>  For then shalt thou have thy delight in the Almighty, and shalt lift up thy face unto God. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">27</span>  Thou shalt make thy prayer unto him, and he shall hear thee, and thou shalt pay thy vows. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">28</span>  Thou shalt also decree a thing, and it shall be established unto thee: and the light shall shine upon thy ways. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">29</span>  When men are cast down, then thou shalt say, There is lifting up; and he shall save the humble person. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">30</span>  He shall deliver the island of the innocent: and it is delivered by the pureness of thine hands. <br>
## Chapter 23
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  Then Job answered and said, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  Even to day is my complaint bitter: my stroke is heavier than my groaning. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  Oh that I knew where I might find him! that I might come even to his seat! <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  I would order my cause before him, and fill my mouth with arguments. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  I would know the words which he would answer me, and understand what he would say unto me. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  Will he plead against me with his great power? No; but he would put strength in me. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  There the righteous might dispute with him; so should I be delivered for ever from my judge. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  Behold, I go forward, but he is not there; and backward, but I cannot perceive him: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  On the left hand, where he doth work, but I cannot behold him: he hideth himself on the right hand, that I cannot see him: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  But he knoweth the way that I take: when he hath tried me, I shall come forth as gold. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  My foot hath held his steps, his way have I kept, and not declined. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  Neither have I gone back from the commandment of his lips; I have esteemed the words of his mouth more than my necessary food. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  But he is in one mind, and who can turn him? and what his soul desireth, even that he doeth. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  For he performeth the thing that is appointed for me: and many such things are with him.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  Therefore am I troubled at his presence: when I consider, I am afraid of him. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  For God maketh my heart soft, and the Almighty troubleth me:  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  Because I was not cut off before the darkness, neither hath he covered the darkness from my face.  <br>
## Chapter 24
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  Why, seeing times are not hidden from the Almighty, do they that know him not see his days? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  Some remove the landmarks; they violently take away flocks, and feed thereof. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  They drive away the ass of the fatherless, they take the widow's ox for a pledge. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  They turn the needy out of the way: the poor of the earth hide themselves together. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  Behold, as wild asses in the desert, go they forth to their work; rising betimes for a prey: the wilderness yieldeth food for them and for their children. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  They reap every one his corn in the field: and they gather the vintage of the wicked. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  They cause the naked to lodge without clothing, that they have no covering in the cold. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  They are wet with the showers of the mountains, and embrace the rock for want of a shelter. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  They pluck the fatherless from the breast, and take a pledge of the poor. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  They cause him to go naked without clothing, and they take away the sheaf from the hungry; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  Which make oil within their walls, and tread their winepresses, and suffer thirst. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  Men groan from out of the city, and the soul of the wounded crieth out: yet God layeth not folly to them. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  They are of those that rebel against the light; they know not the ways thereof, nor abide in the paths thereof. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  The murderer rising with the light killeth the poor and needy, and in the night is as a thief. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  The eye also of the adulterer waiteth for the twilight, saying, No eye shall see me: and disguiseth his face. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  In the dark they dig through houses, which they had marked for themselves in the daytime: they know not the light. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  For the morning is to them even as the shadow of death: if one know them, they are in the terrors of the shadow of death. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  He is swift as the waters; their portion is cursed in the earth: he beholdeth not the way of the vineyards. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  Drought and heat consume the snow waters: so doth the grave those which have sinned.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  The womb shall forget him; the worm shall feed sweetly on him; he shall be no more remembered; and wickedness shall be broken as a tree. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  He evil entreateth the barren that beareth not: and doeth not good to the widow.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  He draweth also the mighty with his power: he riseth up, and no man is sure of life.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  Though it be given him to be in safety, whereon he resteth; yet his eyes are upon their ways. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">24</span>  They are exalted for a little while, but are gone and brought low; they are taken out of the way as all other, and cut off as the tops of the ears of corn. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">25</span>  And if it be not so now, who will make me a liar, and make my speech nothing worth? <br>
## Chapter 25
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  Then answered Bildad the Shuhite, and said, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  Dominion and fear are with him, he maketh peace in his high places. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  Is there any number of his armies? and upon whom doth not his light arise? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  How then can man be justified with God? or how can he be clean that is born of a woman? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  Behold even to the moon, and it shineth not; yea, the stars are not pure in his sight. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  How much less man, that is a worm? and the son of man, which is a worm? <br>
## Chapter 26
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  But Job answered and said, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  How hast thou helped him that is without power? how savest thou the arm that hath no strength? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  How hast thou counselled him that hath no wisdom? and how hast thou plentifully declared the thing as it is? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  To whom hast thou uttered words? and whose spirit came from thee? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  Dead things are formed from under the waters, and the inhabitants thereof. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  Hell is naked before him, and destruction hath no covering. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  He stretcheth out the north over the empty place, and hangeth the earth upon nothing. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  He bindeth up the waters in his thick clouds; and the cloud is not rent under them. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  He holdeth back the face of his throne, and spreadeth his cloud upon it.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  He hath compassed the waters with bounds, until the day and night come to an end. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  The pillars of heaven tremble and are astonished at his reproof.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  He divideth the sea with his power, and by his understanding he smiteth through the proud.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  By his spirit he hath garnished the heavens; his hand hath formed the crooked serpent. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  Lo, these are parts of his ways: but how little a portion is heard of him? but the thunder of his power who can understand? <br>
## Chapter 27
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  Moreover Job continued his parable, and said, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  As God liveth, who hath taken away my judgment; and the Almighty, who hath vexed my soul; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  All the while my breath is in me, and the spirit of God is in my nostrils; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  My lips shall not speak wickedness, nor my tongue utter deceit. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  God forbid that I should justify you: till I die I will not remove mine integrity from me. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  My righteousness I hold fast, and will not let it go: my heart shall not reproach me so long as I live. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  Let mine enemy be as the wicked, and he that riseth up against me as the unrighteous. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  For what is the hope of the hypocrite, though he hath gained, when God taketh away his soul? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  Will God hear his cry when trouble cometh upon him? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  Will he delight himself in the Almighty? will he always call upon God? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  I will teach you by the hand of God: that which is with the Almighty will I not conceal. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  Behold, all ye yourselves have seen it; why then are ye thus altogether vain? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  This is the portion of a wicked man with God, and the heritage of oppressors, which they shall receive of the Almighty. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  If his children be multiplied, it is for the sword: and his offspring shall not be satisfied with bread. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  Those that remain of him shall be buried in death: and his widows shall not weep. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  Though he heap up silver as the dust, and prepare raiment as the clay; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  He may prepare it, but the just shall put it on, and the innocent shall divide the silver.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  He buildeth his house as a moth, and as a booth that the keeper maketh. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  The rich man shall lie down, but he shall not be gathered: he openeth his eyes, and he is not.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  Terrors take hold on him as waters, a tempest stealeth him away in the night.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  The east wind carrieth him away, and he departeth: and as a storm hurleth him out of his place. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  For God shall cast upon him, and not spare: he would fain flee out of his hand. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  Men shall clap their hands at him, and shall hiss him out of his place. <br>
## Chapter 28
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  Surely there is a vein for the silver, and a place for gold where they fine it. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  Iron is taken out of the earth, and brass is molten out of the stone. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  He setteth an end to darkness, and searcheth out all perfection: the stones of darkness, and the shadow of death. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  The flood breaketh out from the inhabitant; even the waters forgotten of the foot: they are dried up, they are gone away from men. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  As for the earth, out of it cometh bread: and under it is turned up as it were fire. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  The stones of it are the place of sapphires: and it hath dust of gold. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  There is a path which no fowl knoweth, and which the vulture's eye hath not seen: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  The lion's whelps have not trodden it, nor the fierce lion passed by it. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  He putteth forth his hand upon the rock; he overturneth the mountains by the roots. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  He cutteth out rivers among the rocks; and his eye seeth every precious thing. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  He bindeth the floods from overflowing; and the thing that is hid bringeth he forth to light. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  But where shall wisdom be found? and where is the place of understanding? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  Man knoweth not the price thereof; neither is it found in the land of the living. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  The depth saith, It is not in me: and the sea saith, It is not with me. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  It cannot be gotten for gold, neither shall silver be weighed for the price thereof. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  It cannot be valued with the gold of Ophir, with the precious onyx, or the sapphire.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  The gold and the crystal cannot equal it: and the exchange of it shall not be for jewels of fine gold. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  No mention shall be made of coral, or of pearls: for the price of wisdom is above rubies.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  The topaz of Ethiopia shall not equal it, neither shall it be valued with pure gold.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  Whence then cometh wisdom? and where is the place of understanding? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  Seeing it is hid from the eyes of all living, and kept close from the fowls of the air. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  Destruction and death say, We have heard the fame thereof with our ears. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  God understandeth the way thereof, and he knoweth the place thereof. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">24</span>  For he looketh to the ends of the earth, and seeth under the whole heaven; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">25</span>  To make the weight for the winds; and he weigheth the waters by measure. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">26</span>  When he made a decree for the rain, and a way for the lightning of the thunder: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">27</span>  Then did he see it, and declare it; he prepared it, yea, and searched it out. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">28</span>  And unto man he said, Behold, the fear of the Lord, that is wisdom; and to depart from evil is understanding. <br>
## Chapter 29
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  Moreover Job continued his parable, and said, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  Oh that I were as in months past, as in the days when God preserved me;  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  When his candle shined upon my head, and when by his light I walked through darkness;  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  As I was in the days of my youth, when the secret of God was upon my tabernacle; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  When the Almighty was yet with me, when my children were about me; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  When I washed my steps with butter, and the rock poured me out rivers of oil; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  When I went out to the gate through the city, when I prepared my seat in the street! <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  The young men saw me, and hid themselves: and the aged arose, and stood up. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  The princes refrained talking, and laid their hand on their mouth. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  The nobles held their peace, and their tongue cleaved to the roof of their mouth. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  When the ear heard me, then it blessed me; and when the eye saw me, it gave witness to me: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  Because I delivered the poor that cried, and the fatherless, and him that had none to help him. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  The blessing of him that was ready to perish came upon me: and I caused the widow's heart to sing for joy. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  I put on righteousness, and it clothed me: my judgment was as a robe and a diadem. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  I was eyes to the blind, and feet was I to the lame. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  I was a father to the poor: and the cause which I knew not I searched out. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  And I brake the jaws of the wicked, and plucked the spoil out of his teeth. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  Then I said, I shall die in my nest, and I shall multiply my days as the sand. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  My root was spread out by the waters, and the dew lay all night upon my branch. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  My glory was fresh in me, and my bow was renewed in my hand. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  Unto me men gave ear, and waited, and kept silence at my counsel. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  After my words they spake not again; and my speech dropped upon them. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  And they waited for me as for the rain; and they opened their mouth wide as for the latter rain.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">24</span>  If I laughed on them, they believed it not; and the light of my countenance they cast not down. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">25</span>  I chose out their way, and sat chief, and dwelt as a king in the army, as one that comforteth the mourners.  <br>
## Chapter 30
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  But now they that are younger than I have me in derision, whose fathers I would have disdained to have set with the dogs of my flock. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  Yea, whereto might the strength of their hands profit me, in whom old age was perished? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  For want and famine they were solitary; fleeing into the wilderness in former time desolate and waste. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  Who cut up mallows by the bushes, and juniper roots for their meat. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  They were driven forth from among men, (they cried after them as after a thief;) <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  To dwell in the clifts of the valleys, in caves of the earth, and in the rocks. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  Among the bushes they brayed; under the nettles they were gathered together. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  They were children of fools, yea, children of base men: they were viler than the earth. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  And now am I their song, yea, I am their byword. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  They abhor me, they flee far from me, and spare not to spit in my face. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  Because he hath loosed my cord, and afflicted me, they have also let loose the bridle before me. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  Upon my right hand rise the youth; they push away my feet, and they raise up against me the ways of their destruction. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  They mar my path, they set forward my calamity, they have no helper. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  They came upon me as a wide breaking in of waters: in the desolation they rolled themselves upon me. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  Terrors are turned upon me: they pursue my soul as the wind: and my welfare passeth away as a cloud. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  And now my soul is poured out upon me; the days of affliction have taken hold upon me. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  My bones are pierced in me in the night season: and my sinews take no rest. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  By the great force of my disease is my garment changed: it bindeth me about as the collar of my coat. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  He hath cast me into the mire, and I am become like dust and ashes. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  I cry unto thee, and thou dost not hear me: I stand up, and thou regardest me not.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  Thou art become cruel to me: with thy strong hand thou opposest thyself against me. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  Thou liftest me up to the wind; thou causest me to ride upon it, and dissolvest my substance.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  For I know that thou wilt bring me to death, and to the house appointed for all living.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">24</span>  Howbeit he will not stretch out his hand to the grave, though they cry in his destruction. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">25</span>  Did not I weep for him that was in trouble? was not my soul grieved for the poor? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">26</span>  When I looked for good, then evil came unto me: and when I waited for light, there came darkness. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">27</span>  My bowels boiled, and rested not: the days of affliction prevented me. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">28</span>  I went mourning without the sun: I stood up, and I cried in the congregation. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">29</span>  I am a brother to dragons, and a companion to owls. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">30</span>  My skin is black upon me, and my bones are burned with heat. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">31</span>  My harp also is turned to mourning, and my organ into the voice of them that weep. <br>
## Chapter 31
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  I made a covenant with mine eyes; why then should I think upon a maid? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  For what portion of God is there from above? and what inheritance of the Almighty from on high? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  Is not destruction to the wicked? and a strange punishment to the workers of iniquity? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  Doth not he see my ways, and count all my steps? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  If I have walked with vanity, or if my foot hath hasted to deceit; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  Let me be weighed in an even balance, that God may know mine integrity. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  If my step hath turned out of the way, and mine heart walked after mine eyes, and if any blot hath cleaved to mine hands; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  Then let me sow, and let another eat; yea, let my offspring be rooted out. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  If mine heart have been deceived by a woman, or if I have laid wait at my neighbour's door; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  Then let my wife grind unto another, and let others bow down upon her. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  For this is an heinous crime; yea, it is an iniquity to be punished by the judges.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  For it is a fire that consumeth to destruction, and would root out all mine increase. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  If I did despise the cause of my manservant or of my maidservant, when they contended with me;  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  What then shall I do when God riseth up? and when he visiteth, what shall I answer him?  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  Did not he that made me in the womb make him? and did not one fashion us in the womb? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  If I have withheld the poor from their desire, or have caused the eyes of the widow to fail; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  Or have eaten my morsel myself alone, and the fatherless hath not eaten thereof; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  (For from my youth he was brought up with me, as with a father, and I have guided her from my mother's womb;) <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  If I have seen any perish for want of clothing, or any poor without covering; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  If his loins have not blessed me, and if he were not warmed with the fleece of my sheep; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  If I have lifted up my hand against the fatherless, when I saw my help in the gate: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  Then let mine arm fall from my shoulder blade, and mine arm be broken from the bone. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  For destruction from God was a terror to me, and by reason of his highness I could not endure. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">24</span>  If I have made gold my hope, or have said to the fine gold, Thou art my confidence; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">25</span>  If I rejoiced because my wealth was great, and because mine hand had gotten much; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">26</span>  If I beheld the sun when it shined, or the moon walking in brightness; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">27</span>  And my heart hath been secretly enticed, or my mouth hath kissed my hand: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">28</span>  This also were an iniquity to be punished by the judge: for I should have denied the God that is above. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">29</span>  If I rejoiced at the destruction of him that hated me, or lifted up myself when evil found him: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">30</span>  Neither have I suffered my mouth to sin by wishing a curse to his soul. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">31</span>  If the men of my tabernacle said not, Oh that we had of his flesh! we cannot be satisfied. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">32</span>  The stranger did not lodge in the street: but I opened my doors to the traveller. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">33</span>  If I covered my transgressions as Adam, by hiding mine iniquity in my bosom: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">34</span>  Did I fear a great multitude, or did the contempt of families terrify me, that I kept silence, and went not out of the door?  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">35</span>  Oh that one would hear me! behold, my desire is, that the Almighty would answer me, and that mine adversary had written a book. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">36</span>  Surely I would take it upon my shoulder, and bind it as a crown to me.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">37</span>  I would declare unto him the number of my steps; as a prince would I go near unto him.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">38</span>  If my land cry against me, or that the furrows likewise thereof complain; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">39</span>  If I have eaten the fruits thereof without money, or have caused the owners thereof to lose their life: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">40</span>  Let thistles grow instead of wheat, and cockle instead of barley. The words of Job are ended. <br>
## Chapter 32
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  So these three men ceased to answer Job, because he was righteous in his own eyes. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  Then was kindled the wrath of Elihu the son of Barachel the Buzite, of the kindred of Ram: against Job was his wrath kindled, because he justified himself rather than God. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  Also against his three friends was his wrath kindled, because they had found no answer, and yet had condemned Job. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  Now Elihu had waited till Job had spoken, because they were elder than he. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  When Elihu saw that there was no answer in the mouth of these three men, then his wrath was kindled. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  And Elihu the son of Barachel the Buzite answered and said, I am young, and ye are very old; wherefore I was afraid, and durst not shew you mine opinion. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  I said, Days should speak, and multitude of years should teach wisdom. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  But there is a spirit in man: and the inspiration of the Almighty giveth them understanding. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  Great men are not always wise: neither do the aged understand judgment. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  Therefore I said, Hearken to me; I also will shew mine opinion. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  Behold, I waited for your words; I gave ear to your reasons, whilst ye searched out what to say. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  Yea, I attended unto you, and, behold, there was none of you that convinced Job, or that answered his words: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  Lest ye should say, We have found out wisdom: God thrusteth him down, not man. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  Now he hath not directed his words against me: neither will I answer him with your speeches. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  They were amazed, they answered no more: they left off speaking. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  When I had waited, (for they spake not, but stood still, and answered no more;)  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  I said, I will answer also my part, I also will shew mine opinion. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  For I am full of matter, the spirit within me constraineth me.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  Behold, my belly is as wine which hath no vent; it is ready to burst like new bottles.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  I will speak, that I may be refreshed: I will open my lips and answer. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  Let me not, I pray you, accept any man's person, neither let me give flattering titles unto man. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  For I know not to give flattering titles; in so doing my maker would soon take me away. <br>
## Chapter 33
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  Wherefore, Job, I pray thee, hear my speeches, and hearken to all my words. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  Behold, now I have opened my mouth, my tongue hath spoken in my mouth. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  My words shall be of the uprightness of my heart: and my lips shall utter knowledge clearly. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  The Spirit of God hath made me, and the breath of the Almighty hath given me life. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  If thou canst answer me, set thy words in order before me, stand up. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  Behold, I am according to thy wish in God's stead: I also am formed out of the clay.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  Behold, my terror shall not make thee afraid, neither shall my hand be heavy upon thee. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  Surely thou hast spoken in mine hearing, and I have heard the voice of thy words, saying,  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  I am clean without transgression, I am innocent; neither is there iniquity in me.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  Behold, he findeth occasions against me, he counteth me for his enemy, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  He putteth my feet in the stocks, he marketh all my paths. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  Behold, in this thou art not just: I will answer thee, that God is greater than man. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  Why dost thou strive against him? for he giveth not account of any of his matters. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  For God speaketh once, yea twice, yet man perceiveth it not. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  In a dream, in a vision of the night, when deep sleep falleth upon men, in slumberings upon the bed; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  Then he openeth the ears of men, and sealeth their instruction, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  That he may withdraw man from his purpose, and hide pride from man. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  He keepeth back his soul from the pit, and his life from perishing by the sword. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  He is chastened also with pain upon his bed, and the multitude of his bones with strong pain: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  So that his life abhorreth bread, and his soul dainty meat. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  His flesh is consumed away, that it cannot be seen; and his bones that were not seen stick out. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  Yea, his soul draweth near unto the grave, and his life to the destroyers. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  If there be a messenger with him, an interpreter, one among a thousand, to shew unto man his uprightness: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">24</span>  Then he is gracious unto him, and saith, Deliver him from going down to the pit: I have found a ransom. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">25</span>  His flesh shall be fresher than a child's: he shall return to the days of his youth: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">26</span>  He shall pray unto God, and he will be favourable unto him: and he shall see his face with joy: for he will render unto man his righteousness. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">27</span>  He looketh upon men, and if any say, I have sinned, and perverted that which was right, and it profited me not; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">28</span>  He will deliver his soul from going into the pit, and his life shall see the light. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">29</span>  Lo, all these things worketh God oftentimes with man,  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">30</span>  To bring back his soul from the pit, to be enlightened with the light of the living. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">31</span>  Mark well, O Job, hearken unto me: hold thy peace, and I will speak.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">32</span>  If thou hast any thing to say, answer me: speak, for I desire to justify thee.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">33</span>  If not, hearken unto me: hold thy peace, and I shall teach thee wisdom. <br>
## Chapter 34
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  Furthermore Elihu answered and said, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  Hear my words, O ye wise men; and give ear unto me, ye that have knowledge. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  For the ear trieth words, as the mouth tasteth meat. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  Let us choose to us judgment: let us know among ourselves what is good. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  For Job hath said, I am righteous: and God hath taken away my judgment. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  Should I lie against my right? my wound is incurable without transgression. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  What man is like Job, who drinketh up scorning like water? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  Which goeth in company with the workers of iniquity, and walketh with wicked men. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  For he hath said, It profiteth a man nothing that he should delight himself with God. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  Therefore hearken unto me, ye men of understanding: far be it from God, that he should do wickedness; and from the Almighty, that he should commit iniquity. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  For the work of a man shall he render unto him, and cause every man to find according to his ways. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  Yea, surely God will not do wickedly, neither will the Almighty pervert judgment. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  Who hath given him a charge over the earth? or who hath disposed the whole world? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  If he set his heart upon man, if he gather unto himself his spirit and his breath; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  All flesh shall perish together, and man shall turn again unto dust. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  If now thou hast understanding, hear this: hearken to the voice of my words. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  Shall even he that hateth right govern? and wilt thou condemn him that is most just? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  Is it fit to say to a king, Thou art wicked? and to princes, Ye are ungodly?  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  How much less to him that accepteth not the persons of princes, nor regardeth the rich more than the poor? for they all are the work of his hands. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  In a moment shall they die, and the people shall be troubled at midnight, and pass away: and the mighty shall be taken away without hand.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  For his eyes are upon the ways of man, and he seeth all his goings.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  There is no darkness, nor shadow of death, where the workers of iniquity may hide themselves. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  For he will not lay upon man more than right; that he should enter into judgment with God. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">24</span>  He shall break in pieces mighty men without number, and set others in their stead. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">25</span>  Therefore he knoweth their works, and he overturneth them in the night, so that they are destroyed. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">26</span>  He striketh them as wicked men in the open sight of others; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">27</span>  Because they turned back from him, and would not consider any of his ways: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">28</span>  So that they cause the cry of the poor to come unto him, and he heareth the cry of the afflicted. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">29</span>  When he giveth quietness, who then can make trouble? and when he hideth his face, who then can behold him? whether it be done against a nation, or against a man only: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">30</span>  That the hypocrite reign not, lest the people be ensnared. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">31</span>  Surely it is meet to be said unto God, I have borne chastisement, I will not offend any more: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">32</span>  That which I see not teach thou me: if I have done iniquity, I will do no more. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">33</span>  Should it be according to thy mind? he will recompense it, whether thou refuse, or whether thou choose; and not I: therefore speak what thou knowest. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">34</span>  Let men of understanding tell me, and let a wise man hearken unto me. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">35</span>  Job hath spoken without knowledge, and his words were without wisdom. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">36</span>  My desire is that Job may be tried unto the end because of his answers for wicked men. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">37</span>  For he addeth rebellion unto his sin, he clappeth his hands among us, and multiplieth his words against God. <br>
## Chapter 35
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  Elihu spake moreover, and said, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  Thinkest thou this to be right, that thou saidst, My righteousness is more than God's? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  For thou saidst, What advantage will it be unto thee? and, What profit shall I have, if I be cleansed from my sin?  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  I will answer thee, and thy companions with thee. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  Look unto the heavens, and see; and behold the clouds which are higher than thou.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  If thou sinnest, what doest thou against him? or if thy transgressions be multiplied, what doest thou unto him?  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  If thou be righteous, what givest thou him? or what receiveth he of thine hand? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  Thy wickedness may hurt a man as thou art; and thy righteousness may profit the son of man. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  By reason of the multitude of oppressions they make the oppressed to cry: they cry out by reason of the arm of the mighty. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  But none saith, Where is God my maker, who giveth songs in the night; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  Who teacheth us more than the beasts of the earth, and maketh us wiser than the fowls of heaven? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  There they cry, but none giveth answer, because of the pride of evil men. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  Surely God will not hear vanity, neither will the Almighty regard it. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  Although thou sayest thou shalt not see him, yet judgment is before him; therefore trust thou in him. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  But now, because it is not so, he hath visited in his anger; yet he knoweth it not in great extremity: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  Therefore doth Job open his mouth in vain; he multiplieth words without knowledge. <br>
## Chapter 36
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  Elihu also proceeded, and said, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  Suffer me a little, and I will shew thee that I have yet to speak on God's behalf. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  I will fetch my knowledge from afar, and will ascribe righteousness to my Maker. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  For truly my words shall not be false: he that is perfect in knowledge is with thee. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  Behold, God is mighty, and despiseth not any: he is mighty in strength and wisdom. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  He preserveth not the life of the wicked: but giveth right to the poor. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  He withdraweth not his eyes from the righteous: but with kings are they on the throne; yea, he doth establish them for ever, and they are exalted. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  And if they be bound in fetters, and be holden in cords of affliction; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  Then he sheweth them their work, and their transgressions that they have exceeded.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  He openeth also their ear to discipline, and commandeth that they return from iniquity. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  If they obey and serve him, they shall spend their days in prosperity, and their years in pleasures.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  But if they obey not, they shall perish by the sword, and they shall die without knowledge.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  But the hypocrites in heart heap up wrath: they cry not when he bindeth them. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  They die in youth, and their life is among the unclean. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  He delivereth the poor in his affliction, and openeth their ears in oppression. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  Even so would he have removed thee out of the strait into a broad place, where there is no straitness; and that which should be set on thy table should be full of fatness. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  But thou hast fulfilled the judgment of the wicked: judgment and justice take hold on thee. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  Because there is wrath, beware lest he take thee away with his stroke: then a great ransom cannot deliver thee. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  Will he esteem thy riches? no, not gold, nor all the forces of strength. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  Desire not the night, when people are cut off in their place. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  Take heed, regard not iniquity: for this hast thou chosen rather than affliction. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  Behold, God exalteth by his power: who teacheth like him? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  Who hath enjoined him his way? or who can say, Thou hast wrought iniquity? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">24</span>  Remember that thou magnify his work, which men behold. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">25</span>  Every man may see it; man may behold it afar off. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">26</span>  Behold, God is great, and we know him not, neither can the number of his years be searched out. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">27</span>  For he maketh small the drops of water: they pour down rain according to the vapour thereof: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">28</span>  Which the clouds do drop and distil upon man abundantly. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">29</span>  Also can any understand the spreadings of the clouds, or the noise of his tabernacle? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">30</span>  Behold, he spreadeth his light upon it, and covereth the bottom of the sea. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">31</span>  For by them judgeth he the people; he giveth meat in abundance. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">32</span>  With clouds he covereth the light; and commandeth it not to shine by the cloud that cometh betwixt.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">33</span>  The noise thereof sheweth concerning it, the cattle also concerning the vapour. <br>
## Chapter 37
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  At this also my heart trembleth, and is moved out of his place.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  Hear attentively the noise of his voice, and the sound that goeth out of his mouth. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  He directeth it under the whole heaven, and his lightning unto the ends of the earth. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  After it a voice roareth: he thundereth with the voice of his excellency; and he will not stay them when his voice is heard. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  God thundereth marvellously with his voice; great things doeth he, which we cannot comprehend. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  For he saith to the snow, Be thou on the earth; likewise to the small rain, and to the great rain of his strength. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  He sealeth up the hand of every man; that all men may know his work. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  Then the beasts go into dens, and remain in their places. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  Out of the south cometh the whirlwind: and cold out of the north. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  By the breath of God frost is given: and the breadth of the waters is straitened. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  Also by watering he wearieth the thick cloud: he scattereth his bright cloud: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  And it is turned round about by his counsels: that they may do whatsoever he commandeth them upon the face of the world in the earth. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  He causeth it to come, whether for correction, or for his land, or for mercy. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  Hearken unto this, O stand still, and consider the wondrous works of God.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  Dost thou know when God disposed them, and caused the light of his cloud to shine? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  Dost thou know the balancings of the clouds, the wondrous works of him which is perfect in knowledge?  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  How thy garments are warm, when he quieteth the earth by the south wind?  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  Hast thou with him spread out the sky, which is strong, and as a molten looking glass? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  Teach us what we shall say unto him; for we cannot order our speech by reason of darkness. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  Shall it be told him that I speak? if a man speak, surely he shall be swallowed up. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  And now men see not the bright light which is in the clouds: but the wind passeth, and cleanseth them. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  Fair weather cometh out of the north: with God is terrible majesty. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  Touching the Almighty, we cannot find him out: he is excellent in power, and in judgment, and in plenty of justice: he will not afflict. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">24</span>  Men do therefore fear him: he respecteth not any that are wise of heart. <br>
## Chapter 38
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  Then the LORD answered Job out of the whirlwind, and said, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  Who is this that darkeneth counsel by words without knowledge? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  Gird up now thy loins like a man; for I will demand of thee, and answer thou me. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  Where wast thou when I laid the foundations of the earth? declare, if thou hast understanding. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  Who hath laid the measures thereof, if thou knowest? or who hath stretched the line upon it? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  Whereupon are the foundations thereof fastened? or who laid the corner stone thereof; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  When the morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  Or who shut up the sea with doors, when it brake forth, as if it had issued out of the womb? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  When I made the cloud the garment thereof, and thick darkness a swaddlingband for it, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  And brake up for it my decreed place, and set bars and doors, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  And said, Hitherto shalt thou come, but no further: and here shall thy proud waves be stayed? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  Hast thou commanded the morning since thy days; and caused the dayspring to know his place;  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  That it might take hold of the ends of the earth, that the wicked might be shaken out of it? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  It is turned as clay to the seal; and they stand as a garment.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  And from the wicked their light is withholden, and the high arm shall be broken.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  Hast thou entered into the springs of the sea? or hast thou walked in the search of the depth? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  Have the gates of death been opened unto thee? or hast thou seen the doors of the shadow of death? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  Hast thou perceived the breadth of the earth? declare if thou knowest it all. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  Where is the way where light dwelleth? and as for darkness, where is the place thereof, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  That thou shouldest take it to the bound thereof, and that thou shouldest know the paths to the house thereof? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  Knowest thou it, because thou wast then born? or because the number of thy days is great? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  Hast thou entered into the treasures of the snow? or hast thou seen the treasures of the hail, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  Which I have reserved against the time of trouble, against the day of battle and war? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">24</span>  By what way is the light parted, which scattereth the east wind upon the earth? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">25</span>  Who hath divided a watercourse for the overflowing of waters, or a way for the lightning of thunder; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">26</span>  To cause it to rain on the earth, where no man is; on the wilderness, wherein there is no man; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">27</span>  To satisfy the desolate and waste ground; and to cause the bud of the tender herb to spring forth? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">28</span>  Hath the rain a father? or who hath begotten the drops of dew? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">29</span>  Out of whose womb came the ice? and the hoary frost of heaven, who hath gendered it? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">30</span>  The waters are hid as with a stone, and the face of the deep is frozen. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">31</span>  Canst thou bind the sweet influences of Pleiades, or loose the bands of Orion? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">32</span>  Canst thou bring forth Mazzaroth in his season? or canst thou guide Arcturus with his sons? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">33</span>  Knowest thou the ordinances of heaven? canst thou set the dominion thereof in the earth? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">34</span>  Canst thou lift up thy voice to the clouds, that abundance of waters may cover thee? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">35</span>  Canst thou send lightnings, that they may go, and say unto thee, Here we are?  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">36</span>  Who hath put wisdom in the inward parts? or who hath given understanding to the heart? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">37</span>  Who can number the clouds in wisdom? or who can stay the bottles of heaven,  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">38</span>  When the dust groweth into hardness, and the clods cleave fast together?  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">39</span>  Wilt thou hunt the prey for the lion? or fill the appetite of the young lions, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">40</span>  When they couch in their dens, and abide in the covert to lie in wait? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">41</span>  Who provideth for the raven his food? when his young ones cry unto God, they wander for lack of meat. <br>
## Chapter 39
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  Knowest thou the time when the wild goats of the rock bring forth? or canst thou mark when the hinds do calve? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  Canst thou number the months that they fulfil? or knowest thou the time when they bring forth? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  They bow themselves, they bring forth their young ones, they cast out their sorrows. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  Their young ones are in good liking, they grow up with corn; they go forth, and return not unto them. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  Who hath sent out the wild ass free? or who hath loosed the bands of the wild ass? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  Whose house I have made the wilderness, and the barren land his dwellings. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  He scorneth the multitude of the city, neither regardeth he the crying of the driver. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  The range of the mountains is his pasture, and he searcheth after every green thing. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  Will the unicorn be willing to serve thee, or abide by thy crib? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  Canst thou bind the unicorn with his band in the furrow? or will he harrow the valleys after thee? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  Wilt thou trust him, because his strength is great? or wilt thou leave thy labour to him? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  Wilt thou believe him, that he will bring home thy seed, and gather it into thy barn? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  Gavest thou the goodly wings unto the peacocks? or wings and feathers unto the ostrich? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  Which leaveth her eggs in the earth, and warmeth them in dust, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  And forgetteth that the foot may crush them, or that the wild beast may break them. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  She is hardened against her young ones, as though they were not hers: her labour is in vain without fear;  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  Because God hath deprived her of wisdom, neither hath he imparted to her understanding. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  What time she lifteth up herself on high, she scorneth the horse and his rider.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  Hast thou given the horse strength? hast thou clothed his neck with thunder?  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  Canst thou make him afraid as a grasshopper? the glory of his nostrils is terrible. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  He paweth in the valley, and rejoiceth in his strength: he goeth on to meet the armed men. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  He mocketh at fear, and is not affrighted; neither turneth he back from the sword. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  The quiver rattleth against him, the glittering spear and the shield. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">24</span>  He swalloweth the ground with fierceness and rage: neither believeth he that it is the sound of the trumpet. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">25</span>  He saith among the trumpets, Ha, ha; and he smelleth the battle afar off, the thunder of the captains, and the shouting. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">26</span>  Doth the hawk fly by thy wisdom, and stretch her wings toward the south? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">27</span>  Doth the eagle mount up at thy command, and make her nest on high? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">28</span>  She dwelleth and abideth on the rock, upon the crag of the rock, and the strong place. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">29</span>  From thence she seeketh the prey, and her eyes behold afar off. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">30</span>  Her young ones also suck up blood: and where the slain are, there is she. <br>
## Chapter 40
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  Moreover the LORD answered Job, and said, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  Shall he that contendeth with the Almighty instruct him? he that reproveth God, let him answer it. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  Then Job answered the LORD, and said, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  Behold, I am vile; what shall I answer thee? I will lay mine hand upon my mouth. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  Once have I spoken; but I will not answer: yea, twice; but I will proceed no further. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  Then answered the LORD unto Job out of the whirlwind, and said, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  Gird up thy loins now like a man: I will demand of thee, and declare thou unto me. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  Wilt thou also disannul my judgment? wilt thou condemn me, that thou mayest be righteous?  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  Hast thou an arm like God? or canst thou thunder with a voice like him? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  Deck thyself now with majesty and excellency; and array thyself with glory and beauty.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  Cast abroad the rage of thy wrath: and behold every one that is proud, and abase him.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  Look on every one that is proud, and bring him low; and tread down the wicked in their place. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  Hide them in the dust together; and bind their faces in secret. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  Then will I also confess unto thee that thine own right hand can save thee. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  Behold now behemoth, which I made with thee; he eateth grass as an ox. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  Lo now, his strength is in his loins, and his force is in the navel of his belly. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  He moveth his tail like a cedar: the sinews of his stones are wrapped together. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  His bones are as strong pieces of brass; his bones are like bars of iron. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  He is the chief of the ways of God: he that made him can make his sword to approach unto him. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  Surely the mountains bring him forth food, where all the beasts of the field play. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  He lieth under the shady trees, in the covert of the reed, and fens. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  The shady trees cover him with their shadow; the willows of the brook compass him about. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  Behold, he drinketh up a river, and hasteth not: he trusteth that he can draw up Jordan into his mouth. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">24</span>  He taketh it with his eyes: his nose pierceth through snares. <br>
## Chapter 41
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  Canst thou draw out leviathan with an hook? or his tongue with a cord which thou lettest down? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  Canst thou put an hook into his nose? or bore his jaw through with a thorn? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  Will he make many supplications unto thee? will he speak soft words unto thee? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  Will he make a covenant with thee? wilt thou take him for a servant for ever? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  Wilt thou play with him as with a bird? or wilt thou bind him for thy maidens? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  Shall the companions make a banquet of him? shall they part him among the merchants?  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  Canst thou fill his skin with barbed iron? or his head with fish spears? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  Lay thine hand upon him, remember the battle, do no more.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  Behold, the hope of him is in vain: shall not one be cast down even at the sight of him?  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  None is so fierce that dare stir him up: who then is able to stand before me? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  Who hath prevented me, that I should repay him? whatsoever is under the whole heaven is mine. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  I will not conceal his parts, nor his power, nor his comely proportion. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  Who can discover the face of his garment? or who can come to him with his double bridle? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  Who can open the doors of his face? his teeth are terrible round about. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  His scales are his pride, shut up together as with a close seal. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  One is so near to another, that no air can come between them. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  They are joined one to another, they stick together, that they cannot be sundered. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  By his neesings a light doth shine, and his eyes are like the eyelids of the morning. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  Out of his mouth go burning lamps, and sparks of fire leap out. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  Out of his nostrils goeth smoke, as out of a seething pot or caldron. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  His breath kindleth coals, and a flame goeth out of his mouth. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  In his neck remaineth strength, and sorrow is turned into joy before him.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  The flakes of his flesh are joined together: they are firm in themselves; they cannot be moved. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">24</span>  His heart is as firm as a stone; yea, as hard as a piece of the nether millstone.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">25</span>  When he raiseth up himself, the mighty are afraid: by reason of breakings they purify themselves.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">26</span>  The sword of him that layeth at him cannot hold: the spear, the dart, nor the habergeon. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">27</span>  He esteemeth iron as straw, and brass as rotten wood. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">28</span>  The arrow cannot make him flee: slingstones are turned with him into stubble. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">29</span>  Darts are counted as stubble: he laugheth at the shaking of a spear. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">30</span>  Sharp stones are under him: he spreadeth sharp pointed things upon the mire. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">31</span>  He maketh the deep to boil like a pot: he maketh the sea like a pot of ointment. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">32</span>  He maketh a path to shine after him; one would think the deep to be hoary. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">33</span>  Upon earth there is not his like, who is made without fear. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">34</span>  He beholdeth all high things: he is a king over all the children of pride. <br>
## Chapter 42
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  Then Job answered the LORD, and said, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  I know that thou canst do every thing, and that no thought can be withholden from thee. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  Who is he that hideth counsel without knowledge? therefore have I uttered that I understood not; things too wonderful for me, which I knew not. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  Hear, I beseech thee, and I will speak: I will demand of thee, and declare thou unto me. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  I have heard of thee by the hearing of the ear: but now mine eye seeth thee. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  Wherefore I abhor myself, and repent in dust and ashes. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  And it was so, that after the LORD had spoken these words unto Job, the LORD said to Eliphaz the Temanite, My wrath is kindled against thee, and against thy two friends: for ye have not spoken of me the thing that is right, as my servant Job hath. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  Therefore take unto you now seven bullocks and seven rams, and go to my servant Job, and offer up for yourselves a burnt offering; and my servant Job shall pray for you: for him will I accept: lest I deal with you after your folly, in that ye have not spoken of me the thing which is right, like my servant Job. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  So Eliphaz the Temanite and Bildad the Shuhite and Zophar the Naamathite went, and did according as the LORD commanded them: the LORD also accepted Job. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  And the LORD turned the captivity of Job, when he prayed for his friends: also the LORD gave Job twice as much as he had before.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  Then came there unto him all his brethren, and all his sisters, and all they that had been of his acquaintance before, and did eat bread with him in his house: and they bemoaned him, and comforted him over all the evil that the LORD had brought upon him: every man also gave him a piece of money, and every one an earring of gold. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  So the LORD blessed the latter end of Job more than his beginning: for he had fourteen thousand sheep, and six thousand camels, and a thousand yoke of oxen, and a thousand she asses.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  He had also seven sons and three daughters.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  And he called the name of the first, Jemima; and the name of the second, Kezia; and the name of the third, Keren-happuch. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  And in all the land were no women found so fair as the daughters of and their father gave them inheritance among their brethren. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  After this lived Job an hundred and forty years, and saw his sons, and his sons' sons, even four generations. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  So Job died, being old and full of days. <br>