# Proverbs

## Chapter 1
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  The proverbs of Solomon the son of David, king of Israel; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  To know wisdom and instruction; to perceive the words of understanding;  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  To receive the instruction of wisdom, justice, and judgment, and equity; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  To give subtilty to the simple, to the young man knowledge and discretion.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  A wise man will hear, and will increase learning; and a man of understanding shall attain unto wise counsels:  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  To understand a proverb, and the interpretation; the words of the wise, and their dark sayings. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  The fear of the LORD is the beginning of knowledge: but fools despise wisdom and instruction. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  My son, hear the instruction of thy father, and forsake not the law of thy mother: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  For they shall be an ornament of grace unto thy head, and chains about thy neck. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  My son, if sinners entice thee, consent thou not. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  If they say, Come with us, let us lay wait for blood, let us lurk privily for the innocent without cause: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  Let us swallow them up alive as the grave; and whole, as those that go down into the pit: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  We shall find all precious substance, we shall fill our houses with spoil: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  Cast in thy lot among us; let us all have one purse: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  My son, walk not thou in the way with them; refrain thy foot from their path: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  For their feet run to evil, and make haste to shed blood. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  Surely in vain the net is spread in the sight of any bird. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  And they lay wait for their own blood; they lurk privily for their own lives. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  So are the ways of every one that is greedy of gain; which taketh away the life of the owners thereof. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  Wisdom crieth without; she uttereth her voice in the streets: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  She crieth in the chief place of concourse, in the openings of the gates: in the city she uttereth her words, saying, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  How long, ye simple ones, will ye love simplicity? and the scorners delight in their scorning, and fools hate knowledge? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  Turn you at my reproof: behold, I will pour out my spirit unto you, I will make known my words unto you. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">24</span>  Because I have called, and ye refused; I have stretched out my hand, and no man regarded; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">25</span>  But ye have set at nought all my counsel, and would none of my reproof:  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">26</span>  I also will laugh at your calamity; I will mock when your fear cometh; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">27</span>  When your fear cometh as desolation, and your destruction cometh as a whirlwind; when distress and anguish cometh upon you.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">28</span>  Then shall they call upon me, but I will not answer; they shall seek me early, but they shall not find me:  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">29</span>  For that they hated knowledge, and did not choose the fear of the LORD: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">30</span>  They would none of my counsel: they despised all my reproof. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">31</span>  Therefore shall they eat of the fruit of their own way, and be filled with their own devices. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">32</span>  For the turning away of the simple shall slay them, and the prosperity of fools shall destroy them. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">33</span>  But whoso hearkeneth unto me shall dwell safely, and shall be quiet from fear of evil. <br>
## Chapter 2
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  My son, if thou wilt receive my words, and hide my commandments with thee; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  So that thou incline thine ear unto wisdom, and apply thine heart to understanding; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  Yea, if thou criest after knowledge, and liftest up thy voice for understanding; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  If thou seekest her as silver, and searchest for her as for hid treasures; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  Then shalt thou understand the fear of the LORD, and find the knowledge of God. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  For the LORD giveth wisdom: out of his mouth cometh knowledge and understanding. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  He layeth up sound wisdom for the righteous: he is a buckler to them that walk uprightly. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  He keepeth the paths of judgment, and preserveth the way of his saints. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  Then shalt thou understand righteousness, and judgment, and equity; yea, every good path. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  When wisdom entereth into thine heart, and knowledge is pleasant unto thy soul; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  Discretion shall preserve thee, understanding shall keep thee: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  To deliver thee from the way of the evil man, from the man that speaketh froward things; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  Who leave the paths of uprightness, to walk in the ways of darkness; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  Who rejoice to do evil, and delight in the frowardness of the wicked;  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  Whose ways are crooked, and they froward in their paths: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  To deliver thee from the strange woman, even from the stranger which flattereth with her words;  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  Which forsaketh the guide of her youth, and forgetteth the covenant of her God.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  For her house inclineth unto death, and her paths unto the dead. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  None that go unto her return again, neither take they hold of the paths of life. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  That thou mayest walk in the way of good men, and keep the paths of the righteous. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  For the upright shall dwell in the land, and the perfect shall remain in it. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  But the wicked shall be cut off from the earth, and the transgressors shall be rooted out of it. <br>
## Chapter 3
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  My son, forget not my law; but let thine heart keep my commandments: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  For length of days, and long life, and peace, shall they add to thee. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  Let not mercy and truth forsake thee: bind them about thy neck; write them upon the table of thine heart: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  So shalt thou find favour and good understanding in the sight of God and man. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  Trust in the LORD with all thine heart; and lean not unto thine own understanding. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  Be not wise in thine own eyes: fear the LORD, and depart from evil. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  It shall be health to thy navel, and marrow to thy bones. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  Honour the LORD with thy substance, and with the firstfruits of all thine increase: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  So shall thy barns be filled with plenty, and thy presses shall burst out with new wine. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  My son, despise not the chastening of the LORD; neither be weary of his correction: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  For whom the LORD loveth he correcteth; even as a father the son in whom he delighteth. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  Happy is the man that findeth wisdom, and the man that getteth understanding. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  For the merchandise of it is better than the merchandise of silver, and the gain thereof than fine gold.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  She is more precious than rubies: and all the things thou canst desire are not to be compared unto her. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  Length of days is in her right hand; and in her left hand riches and honour.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  Her ways are ways of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  She is a tree of life to them that lay hold upon her: and happy is every one that retaineth her. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  The LORD by wisdom hath founded the earth; by understanding hath he established the heavens. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  By his knowledge the depths are broken up, and the clouds drop down the dew. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  My son, let not them depart from thine eyes: keep sound wisdom and discretion: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  So shall they be life unto thy soul, and grace to thy neck. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  Then shalt thou walk in thy way safely, and thy foot shall not stumble. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">24</span>  When thou liest down, thou shalt not be afraid: yea, thou shalt lie down, and thy sleep shall be sweet. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">25</span>  Be not afraid of sudden fear, neither of the desolation of the wicked, when it cometh. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">26</span>  For the LORD shall be thy confidence, and shall keep thy foot from being taken. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">27</span>  Withhold not good from them to whom it is due, when it is in the power of thine hand to do it. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">28</span>  Say not unto thy neighbour, Go, and come again, and to morrow I will give; when thou hast it by thee. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">29</span>  Devise not evil against thy neighbour, seeing he dwelleth securely by thee. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">30</span>  Strive not with a man without cause, if he have done thee no harm. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">31</span>  Envy thou not the oppressor, and choose none of his ways. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">32</span>  For the froward is abomination to the LORD: but his secret is with the righteous. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">33</span>  The curse of the LORD is in the house of the wicked: but he blesseth the habitation of the just. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">34</span>  Surely he scorneth the scorners: but he giveth grace unto the lowly. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">35</span>  The wise shall inherit glory: but shame shall be the promotion of fools. <br>
## Chapter 4
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  Hear, ye children, the instruction of a father, and attend to know understanding.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  For I give you good doctrine, forsake ye not my law. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  For I was my father's son, tender and only beloved in the sight of my mother.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  He taught me also, and said unto me, Let thine heart retain my words: keep my commandments, and live.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  Get wisdom, get understanding: forget it not; neither decline from the words of my mouth. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  Forsake her not, and she shall preserve thee: love her, and she shall keep thee. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  Wisdom is the principal thing; therefore get wisdom: and with all thy getting get understanding. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  Exalt her, and she shall promote thee: she shall bring thee to honour, when thou dost embrace her. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  She shall give to thine head an ornament of grace: a crown of glory shall she deliver to thee. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  Hear, O my son, and receive my sayings; and the years of thy life shall be many. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  I have taught thee in the way of wisdom; I have led thee in right paths. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  When thou goest, thy steps shall not be straitened; and when thou runnest, thou shalt not stumble. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  Take fast hold of instruction; let her not go: keep her; for she is thy life. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  Enter not into the path of the wicked, and go not in the way of evil men. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  Avoid it, pass not by it, turn from it, and pass away. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  For they sleep not, except they have done mischief; and their sleep is taken away, unless they cause some to fall. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  For they eat the bread of wickedness, and drink the wine of violence. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  But the path of the just is as the shining light, that shineth more and more unto the perfect day. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  The way of the wicked is as darkness: they know not at what they stumble. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  My son, attend to my words; incline thine ear unto my sayings. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  Let them not depart from thine eyes; keep them in the midst of thine heart. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  For they are life unto those that find them, and health to all their flesh. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  Keep thy heart with all diligence; for out of it are the issues of life. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">24</span>  Put away from thee a froward mouth, and perverse lips put far from thee.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">25</span>  Let thine eyes look right on, and let thine eyelids look straight before thee. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">26</span>  Ponder the path of thy feet, and let all thy ways be established.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">27</span>  Turn not to the right hand nor to the left: remove thy foot from evil.  <br>
## Chapter 5
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  My son, attend unto my wisdom, and bow thine ear to my understanding: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  That thou mayest regard discretion, and that thy lips may keep knowledge. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  For the lips of a strange woman drop as an honeycomb, and her mouth is smoother than oil: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  But her end is bitter as wormwood, sharp as a twoedged sword. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  Her feet go down to death; her steps take hold on hell. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  Lest thou shouldest ponder the path of life, her ways are moveable, that thou canst not know them. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  Hear me now therefore, O ye children, and depart not from the words of my mouth. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  Remove thy way far from her, and come not nigh the door of her house: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  Lest thou give thine honour unto others, and thy years unto the cruel: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  Lest strangers be filled with thy wealth; and thy labours be in the house of a stranger; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  And thou mourn at the last, when thy flesh and thy body are consumed, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  And say, How have I hated instruction, and my heart despised reproof; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  And have not obeyed the voice of my teachers, nor inclined mine ear to them that instructed me! <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  I was almost in all evil in the midst of the congregation and assembly. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  Drink waters out of thine own cistern, and running waters out of thine own well. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  Let thy fountains be dispersed abroad, and rivers of waters in the streets. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  Let them be only thine own, and not strangers' with thee. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  Let thy fountain be blessed: and rejoice with the wife of thy youth.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  Let her be as the loving hind and pleasant roe; let her breasts satisfy thee at all times; and be thou ravished always with her love. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  And why wilt thou, my son, be ravished with a strange woman, and embrace the bosom of a stranger?  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  For the ways of man are before the eyes of the LORD, and he pondereth all his goings.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  His own iniquities shall take the wicked himself, and he shall be holden with the cords of his sins. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  He shall die without instruction; and in the greatness of his folly he shall go astray. <br>
## Chapter 6
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  My son, if thou be surety for thy friend, if thou hast stricken thy hand with a stranger, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  Thou art snared with the words of thy mouth, thou art taken with the words of thy mouth. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  Do this now, my son, deliver thyself, when thou art come into the hand of thy friend; go, humble thyself, and make sure thy friend. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  Give not sleep to thine eyes, nor slumber to thine eyelids. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  Deliver thyself as a roe from the hand of the hunter, and as a bird from the hand of the fowler. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  Go to the ant, thou sluggard; consider her ways, and be wise: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  Which having no guide, overseer, or ruler, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  Provideth her meat in the summer, and gathereth her food in the harvest. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  How long wilt thou sleep, O sluggard? when wilt thou arise out of thy sleep? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  Yet a little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to sleep: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  So shall thy poverty come as one that travelleth, and thy want as an armed man. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  A naughty person, a wicked man, walketh with a froward mouth. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  He winketh with his eyes, he speaketh with his feet, he teacheth with his fingers; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  Frowardness is in his heart, he deviseth mischief continually; he soweth discord. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  Therefore shall his calamity come suddenly; suddenly shall he be broken without remedy. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  These six things doth the LORD hate: yea, seven are an abomination unto him: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  A proud look, a lying tongue, and hands that shed innocent blood,  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  An heart that deviseth wicked imaginations, feet that be swift in running to mischief, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  A false witness that speaketh lies, and he that soweth discord among brethren.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  My son, keep thy father's commandment, and forsake not the law of thy mother:  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  Bind them continually upon thine heart, and tie them about thy neck. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  When thou goest, it shall lead thee; when thou sleepest, it shall keep thee; and when thou awakest, it shall talk with thee. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  For the commandment is a lamp; and the law is light; and reproofs of instruction are the way of life: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">24</span>  To keep thee from the evil woman, from the flattery of the tongue of a strange woman. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">25</span>  Lust not after her beauty in thine heart; neither let her take thee with her eyelids. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">26</span>  For by means of a whorish woman a man is brought to a piece of bread: and the adulteress will hunt for the precious life. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">27</span>  Can a man take fire in his bosom, and his clothes not be burned? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">28</span>  Can one go upon hot coals, and his feet not be burned? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">29</span>  So he that goeth in to his neighbour's wife; whosoever toucheth her shall not be innocent. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">30</span>  Men do not despise a thief, if he steal to satisfy his soul when he is hungry; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">31</span>  But if he be found, he shall restore sevenfold; he shall give all the substance of his house. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">32</span>  But whoso committeth adultery with a woman lacketh understanding: he that doeth it destroyeth his own soul. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">33</span>  A wound and dishonour shall he get; and his reproach shall not be wiped away. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">34</span>  For jealousy is the rage of a man: therefore he will not spare in the day of vengeance. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">35</span>  He will not regard any ransom; neither will he rest content, though thou givest many gifts. <br>
## Chapter 7
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  My son, keep my words, and lay up my commandments with thee. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  Keep my commandments, and live; and my law as the apple of thine eye. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  Bind them upon thy fingers, write them upon the table of thine heart. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  Say unto wisdom, Thou art my sister; and call understanding thy kinswoman:  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  That they may keep thee from the strange woman, from the stranger which flattereth with her words. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  For at the window of my house I looked through my casement,  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  And beheld among the simple ones, I discerned among the youths, a young man void of understanding,  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  Passing through the street near her corner; and he went the way to her house, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  In the twilight, in the evening, in the black and dark night: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  And, behold, there met him a woman with the attire of an harlot, and subtil of heart. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  (She is loud and stubborn; her feet abide not in her house: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  Now is she without, now in the streets, and lieth in wait at every corner.) <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  So she caught him, and kissed him, and with an impudent face said unto him, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  I have peace offerings with me; this day have I payed my vows. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  Therefore came I forth to meet thee, diligently to seek thy face, and I have found thee. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  I have decked my bed with coverings of tapestry, with carved works, with fine linen of Egypt. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  I have perfumed my bed with myrrh, aloes, and cinnamon. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  Come, let us take our fill of love until the morning: let us solace ourselves with loves. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  For the goodman is not at home, he is gone a long journey: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  He hath taken a bag of money with him, and will come home at the day appointed. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  With her much fair speech she caused him to yield, with the flattering of her lips she forced him. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  He goeth after her straightway, as an ox goeth to the slaughter, or as a fool to the correction of the stocks; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  Till a dart strike through his liver; as a bird hasteth to the snare, and knoweth not that it is for his life. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">24</span>  Hearken unto me now therefore, O ye children, and attend to the words of my mouth. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">25</span>  Let not thine heart decline to her ways, go not astray in her paths. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">26</span>  For she hath cast down many wounded: yea, many strong men have been slain by her. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">27</span>  Her house is the way to hell, going down to the chambers of death.  <br>
## Chapter 8
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  Doth not wisdom cry? and understanding put forth her voice?  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  She standeth in the top of high places, by the way in the places of the paths.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  She crieth at the gates, at the entry of the city, at the coming in at the doors. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  Unto you, O men, I call; and my voice is to the sons of man. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  O ye simple, understand wisdom: and, ye fools, be ye of an understanding heart. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  Hear; for I will speak of excellent things; and the opening of my lips shall be right things. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  For my mouth shall speak truth; and wickedness is an abomination to my lips. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  All the words of my mouth are in righteousness; there is nothing froward or perverse in them. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  They are all plain to him that understandeth, and right to them that find knowledge. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  Receive my instruction, and not silver; and knowledge rather than choice gold. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  For wisdom is better than rubies; and all the things that may be desired are not to be compared to it. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  I wisdom dwell with prudence, and find out knowledge of witty inventions. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  The fear of the LORD is to hate evil: pride, and arrogancy, and the evil way, and the froward mouth, do I hate. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  Counsel is mine, and sound wisdom: I am understanding; I have strength. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  By me kings reign, and princes decree justice. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  By me princes rule, and nobles, even all the judges of the earth. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  I love them that love me; and those that seek me early shall find me. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  Riches and honour are with me; yea, durable riches and righteousness. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  My fruit is better than gold, yea, than fine gold; and my revenue than choice silver. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  I lead in the way of righteousness, in the midst of the paths of judgment: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  That I may cause those that love me to inherit substance; and I will fill their treasures. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  The LORD possessed me in the beginning of his way, before his works of old.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  I was set up from everlasting, from the beginning, or ever the earth was. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">24</span>  When there were no depths, I was brought forth; when there were no fountains abounding with water.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">25</span>  Before the mountains were settled, before the hills was I brought forth:  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">26</span>  While as yet he had not made the earth, nor the fields, nor the highest part of the dust of the world. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">27</span>  When he prepared the heavens, I was there: when he set a compass upon the face of the depth: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">28</span>  When he established the clouds above: when he strengthened the fountains of the deep: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">29</span>  When he gave to the sea his decree, that the waters should not pass his commandment: when he appointed the foundations of the earth: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">30</span>  Then I was by him, as one brought up with him: and I was daily his delight, rejoicing always before him; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">31</span>  Rejoicing in the habitable part of his earth; and my delights were with the sons of men. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">32</span>  Now therefore hearken unto me, O ye children: for blessed are they that keep my ways. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">33</span>  Hear instruction, and be wise, and refuse it not. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">34</span>  Blessed is the man that heareth me, watching daily at my gates, waiting at the posts of my doors. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">35</span>  For whoso findeth me findeth life, and shall obtain favour of the LORD. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">36</span>  But he that sinneth against me wrongeth his own soul: all they that hate me love death. <br>
## Chapter 9
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  Wisdom hath builded her house, she hath hewn out her seven pillars: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  She hath killed her beasts; she hath mingled her wine; she hath also furnished her table. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  She hath sent forth her maidens: she crieth upon the highest places of the city, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  Whoso is simple, let him turn in hither: as for him that wanteth understanding, she saith to him, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  Come, eat of my bread, and drink of the wine which I have mingled. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  Forsake the foolish, and live; and go in the way of understanding. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  He that reproveth a scorner getteth to himself shame: and he that rebuketh a wicked man getteth himself a blot. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  Reprove not a scorner, lest he hate thee: rebuke a wise man, and he will love thee.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  Give instruction to a wise man, and he will be yet wiser: teach a just man, and he will increase in learning. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  The fear of the LORD is the beginning of wisdom: and the knowledge of the holy is understanding.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  For by me thy days shall be multiplied, and the years of thy life shall be increased.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  If thou be wise, thou shalt be wise for thyself: but if thou scornest, thou alone shalt bear it. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  A foolish woman is clamourous: she is simple, and knoweth nothing. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  For she sitteth at the door of her house, on a seat in the high places of the city, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  To call passengers who go right on their ways: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  Whoso is simple, let him turn in hither: and as for him that wanteth understanding, she saith to him, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  Stolen waters are sweet, and bread eaten in secret is pleasant. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  But he knoweth not that the dead are there; and that her guests are in the depths of hell. <br>
## Chapter 10
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  The proverbs of Solomon. A wise son maketh a glad father: but a foolish son is the heaviness of his mother. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  Treasures of wickedness profit nothing: but righteousness delivereth from death. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  The LORD will not suffer the soul of the righteous to famish: but he casteth away the substance of the wicked. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  He becometh poor that dealeth with a slack hand: but the hand of the diligent maketh rich. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  He that gathereth in summer is a wise son: but he that sleepeth in harvest is a son that causeth shame. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  Blessings are upon the head of the just: but violence covereth the mouth of the wicked. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  The memory of the just is blessed: but the name of the wicked shall rot.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  The wise in heart will receive commandments: but a prating fool shall fall. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  He that walketh uprightly walketh surely: but he that perverteth his ways shall be known.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  He that winketh with the eye causeth sorrow: but a prating fool shall fall.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  The mouth of a righteous man is a well of life: but violence covereth the mouth of the wicked. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  Hatred stirreth up strifes: but love covereth all sins. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  In the lips of him that hath understanding wisdom is found: but a rod is for the back of him that is void of understanding. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  Wise men lay up knowledge: but the mouth of the foolish is near destruction. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  The rich man's wealth is his strong city: the destruction of the poor is their poverty. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  The labour of the righteous tendeth to life: the fruit of the wicked to sin. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  He is in the way of life that keepeth instruction: but he that refuseth reproof erreth. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  He that hideth hatred with lying lips, and he that uttereth a slander, is a fool. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  In the multitude of words there wanteth not sin: but he that refraineth his lips is wise. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  The tongue of the just is as choice silver: the heart of the wicked is little worth. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  The lips of the righteous feed many: but fools die for want of wisdom. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  The blessing of the LORD, it maketh rich, and he addeth no sorrow with it. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  It is as sport to a fool to do mischief: but a man of understanding hath wisdom. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">24</span>  The fear of the wicked, it shall come upon him: but the desire of the righteous shall be granted. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">25</span>  As the whirlwind passeth, so is the wicked no more: but the righteous is an everlasting foundation. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">26</span>  As vinegar to the teeth, and as smoke to the eyes, so is the sluggard to them that send him. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">27</span>  The fear of the LORD prolongeth days: but the years of the wicked shall be shortened. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">28</span>  The hope of the righteous shall be gladness: but the expectation of the wicked shall perish. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">29</span>  The way of the LORD is strength to the upright: but destruction shall be to the workers of iniquity. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">30</span>  The righteous shall never be removed: but the wicked shall not inhabit the earth.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">31</span>  The mouth of the just bringeth forth wisdom: but the froward tongue shall be cut out. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">32</span>  The lips of the righteous know what is acceptable: but the mouth of the wicked speaketh frowardness.  <br>
## Chapter 11
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  A false balance is abomination to the LORD: but a just weight is his delight. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  When pride cometh, then cometh shame: but with the lowly is wisdom. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  The integrity of the upright shall guide them: but the perverseness of transgressors shall destroy them. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  Riches profit not in the day of wrath: but righteousness delivereth from death. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  The righteousness of the perfect shall direct his way: but the wicked shall fall by his own wickedness. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  The righteousness of the upright shall deliver them: but transgressors shall be taken in their own naughtiness. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  When a wicked man dieth, his expectation shall perish: and the hope of unjust men perisheth. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  The righteous is delivered out of trouble, and the wicked cometh in his stead. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  An hypocrite with his mouth destroyeth his neighbour: but through knowledge shall the just be delivered. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  When it goeth well with the righteous, the city rejoiceth: and when the wicked perish, there is shouting. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  By the blessing of the upright the city is exalted: but it is overthrown by the mouth of the wicked. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  He that is void of wisdom despiseth his neighbour: but a man of understanding holdeth his peace. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  A talebearer revealeth secrets: but he that is of a faithful spirit concealeth the matter. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  Where no counsel is, the people fall: but in the multitude of counsellers there is safety. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  He that is surety for a stranger shall smart for it: and he that hateth suretiship is sure. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  A gracious woman retaineth honour: and strong men retain riches. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  The merciful man doeth good to his own soul: but he that is cruel troubleth his own flesh. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  The wicked worketh a deceitful work: but to him that soweth righteousness shall be a sure reward. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  As righteousness tendeth to life: so he that pursueth evil pursueth it to his own death. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  They that are of a froward heart are abomination to the LORD: but such as are upright in their way are his delight.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  Though hand join in hand, the wicked shall not be unpunished: but the seed of the righteous shall be delivered. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  As a jewel of gold in a swine's snout, so is a fair woman which is without discretion.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  The desire of the righteous is only good: but the expectation of the wicked is wrath.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">24</span>  There is that scattereth, and yet increaseth; and there is that withholdeth more than is meet, but it tendeth to poverty. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">25</span>  The liberal soul shall be made fat: and he that watereth shall be watered also himself. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">26</span>  He that withholdeth corn, the people shall curse him: but blessing shall be upon the head of him that selleth it. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">27</span>  He that diligently seeketh good procureth favour: but he that seeketh mischief, it shall come unto him. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">28</span>  He that trusteth in his riches shall fall: but the righteous shall flourish as a branch. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">29</span>  He that troubleth his own house shall inherit the wind: and the fool shall be servant to the wise of heart. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">30</span>  The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life; and he that winneth souls is wise. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">31</span>  Behold, the righteous shall be recompensed in the earth: much more the wicked and the sinner. <br>
## Chapter 12
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  Whoso loveth instruction loveth knowledge: but he that hateth reproof is brutish. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  A good man obtaineth favour of the LORD: but a man of wicked devices will he condemn. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  A man shall not be established by wickedness: but the root of the righteous shall not be moved. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  A virtuous woman is a crown to her husband: but she that maketh ashamed is as rottenness in his bones. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  The thoughts of the righteous are right: but the counsels of the wicked are deceit. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  The words of the wicked are to lie in wait for blood: but the mouth of the upright shall deliver them. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  The wicked are overthrown, and are not: but the house of the righteous shall stand. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  A man shall be commended according to his wisdom: but he that is of a perverse heart shall be despised. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  He that is despised, and hath a servant, is better than he that honoureth himself, and lacketh bread. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  A righteous man regardeth the life of his beast: but the tender mercies of the wicked are cruel. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  He that tilleth his land shall be satisfied with bread: but he that followeth vain persons is void of understanding.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  The wicked desireth the net of evil men: but the root of the righteous yieldeth fruit. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  The wicked is snared by the transgression of his lips: but the just shall come out of trouble.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  A man shall be satisfied with good by the fruit of his mouth: and the recompence of a man's hands shall be rendered unto him.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  The way of a fool is right in his own eyes: but he that hearkeneth unto counsel is wise. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  A fool's wrath is presently known: but a prudent man covereth shame. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  He that speaketh truth sheweth forth righteousness: but a false witness deceit. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  There is that speaketh like the piercings of a sword: but the tongue of the wise is health. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  The lip of truth shall be established for ever: but a lying tongue is but for a moment. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  Deceit is in the heart of them that imagine evil: but to the counsellers of peace is joy. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  There shall no evil happen to the just: but the wicked shall be filled with mischief. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  Lying lips are abomination to the LORD: but they that deal truly are his delight. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  A prudent man concealeth knowledge: but the heart of fools proclaimeth foolishness. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">24</span>  The hand of the diligent shall bear rule: but the slothful shall be under tribute. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">25</span>  Heaviness in the heart of man maketh it stoop: but a good word maketh it glad. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">26</span>  The righteous is more excellent than his neighbour: but the way of the wicked seduceth them. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">27</span>  The slothful man roasteth not that which he took in hunting: but the substance of a diligent man is precious. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">28</span>  In the way of righteousness is life; and in the pathway thereof there is no death. <br>
## Chapter 13
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  A wise son heareth his father's instruction: but a scorner heareth not rebuke. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  A man shall eat good by the fruit of his mouth: but the soul of the transgressors shall eat violence. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  He that keepeth his mouth keepeth his life: but he that openeth wide his lips shall have destruction. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  The soul of the sluggard desireth, and hath nothing: but the soul of the diligent shall be made fat. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  A righteous man hateth lying: but a wicked man is loathsome, and cometh to shame.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  Righteousness keepeth him that is upright in the way: but wickedness overthroweth the sinner. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  There is that maketh himself rich, yet hath nothing: there is that maketh himself poor, yet hath great riches.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  The ransom of a man's life are his riches: but the poor heareth not rebuke.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  The light of the righteous rejoiceth: but the lamp of the wicked shall be put out. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  Only by pride cometh contention: but with the well advised is wisdom. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  Wealth gotten by vanity shall be diminished: but he that gathereth by labour shall increase. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  Hope deferred maketh the heart sick: but when the desire cometh, it is a tree of life. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  Whoso despiseth the word shall be destroyed: but he that feareth the commandment shall be rewarded. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  The law of the wise is a fountain of life, to depart from the snares of death. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  Good understanding giveth favour: but the way of transgressors is hard. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  Every prudent man dealeth with knowledge: but a fool layeth open his folly. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  A wicked messenger falleth into mischief: but a faithful ambassador is health. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  Poverty and shame shall be to him that refuseth instruction: but he that regardeth reproof shall be honoured. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  The desire accomplished is sweet to the soul: but it is abomination to fools to depart from evil. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  He that walketh with wise men shall be wise: but a companion of fools shall be destroyed. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  Evil pursueth sinners: but to the righteous good shall be repayed. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  A good man leaveth an inheritance to his children's children: and the wealth of the sinner is laid up for the just. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  Much food is in the tillage of the poor: but there is that is destroyed for want of judgment. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">24</span>  He that spareth his rod hateth his son: but he that loveth him chasteneth him betimes. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">25</span>  The righteous eateth to the satisfying of his soul: but the belly of the wicked shall want. <br>
## Chapter 14
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  Every wise woman buildeth her house: but the foolish plucketh it down with her hands. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  He that walketh in his uprightness feareth the LORD: but he that is perverse in his ways despiseth him.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  In the mouth of the foolish is a rod of pride: but the lips of the wise shall preserve them. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  Where no oxen are, the crib is clean: but much increase is by the strength of the ox.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  A faithful witness will not lie: but a false witness will utter lies. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  A scorner seeketh wisdom, and findeth it not: but knowledge is easy unto him that understandeth. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  Go from the presence of a foolish man, when thou perceivest not in him the lips of knowledge. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  The wisdom of the prudent is to understand his way: but the folly of fools is deceit. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  Fools make a mock at sin: but among the righteous there is favour.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  The heart knoweth his own bitterness; and a stranger doth not intermeddle with his joy. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  The house of the wicked shall be overthrown: but the tabernacle of the upright shall flourish.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  There is a way which seemeth right unto a man, but the end thereof are the ways of death.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  Even in laughter the heart is sorrowful; and the end of that mirth is heaviness. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  The backslider in heart shall be filled with his own ways: and a good man shall be satisfied from himself. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  The simple believeth every word: but the prudent man looketh well to his going. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  A wise man feareth, and departeth from evil: but the fool rageth, and is confident. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  He that is soon angry dealeth foolishly: and a man of wicked devices is hated. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  The simple inherit folly: but the prudent are crowned with knowledge. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  The evil bow before the good; and the wicked at the gates of the righteous. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  The poor is hated even of his own neighbour: but the rich hath many friends. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  He that despiseth his neighbour sinneth: but he that hath mercy on the poor, happy is he. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  Do they not err that devise evil? but mercy and truth shall be to them that devise good. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  In all labour there is profit: but the talk of the lips tendeth only to penury. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">24</span>  The crown of the wise is their riches: but the foolishness of fools is folly. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">25</span>  A true witness delivereth souls: but a deceitful witness speaketh lies. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">26</span>  In the fear of the LORD is strong confidence: and his children shall have a place of refuge. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">27</span>  The fear of the LORD is a fountain of life, to depart from the snares of death. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">28</span>  In the multitude of people is the king's honour: but in the want of people is the destruction of the prince. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">29</span>  He that is slow to wrath is of great understanding: but he that is hasty of spirit exalteth folly. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">30</span>  A sound heart is the life of the flesh: but envy the rottenness of the bones. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">31</span>  He that oppresseth the poor reproacheth his Maker: but he that honoureth him hath mercy on the poor. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">32</span>  The wicked is driven away in his wickedness: but the righteous hath hope in his death.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">33</span>  Wisdom resteth in the heart of him that hath understanding: but that which is in the midst of fools is made known. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">34</span>  Righteousness exalteth a nation: but sin is a reproach to any people.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">35</span>  The king's favour is toward a wise servant: but his wrath is against him that causeth shame.  <br>
## Chapter 15
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  A soft answer turneth away wrath: but grievous words stir up anger. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  The tongue of the wise useth knowledge aright: but the mouth of fools poureth out foolishness. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  The eyes of the LORD are in every place, beholding the evil and the good. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  A wholesome tongue is a tree of life: but perverseness therein is a breach in the spirit. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  A fool despiseth his father's instruction: but he that regardeth reproof is prudent. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  In the house of the righteous is much treasure: but in the revenues of the wicked is trouble. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  The lips of the wise disperse knowledge: but the heart of the foolish doeth not so. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination to the LORD: but the prayer of the upright is his delight. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  The way of the wicked is an abomination unto the LORD: but he loveth him that followeth after righteousness. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  Correction is grievous unto him that forsaketh the way: and he that hateth reproof shall die. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  Hell and destruction are before the LORD: how much more then the hearts of the children of men? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  A scorner loveth not one that reproveth him: neither will he go unto the wise. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  A merry heart maketh a cheerful countenance: but by sorrow of the heart the spirit is broken. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  The heart of him that hath understanding seeketh knowledge: but the mouth of fools feedeth on foolishness. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  All the days of the afflicted are evil: but he that is of a merry heart hath a continual feast. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  Better is little with the fear of the LORD than great treasure and trouble therewith. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  Better is a dinner of herbs where love is, than a stalled ox and hatred therewith. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  A wrathful man stirreth up strife: but he that is slow to anger appeaseth strife. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  The way of the slothful man is as an hedge of thorns: but the way of the righteous is made plain.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  A wise son maketh a glad father: but a foolish man despiseth his mother. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  Folly is joy to him that is destitute of wisdom: but a man of understanding walketh uprightly.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  Without counsel purposes are disappointed: but in the multitude of counsellers they are established.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  A man hath joy by the answer of his mouth: and a word spoken in due season, how good is it! <br><span style="font-size:larger;">24</span>  The way of life is above to the wise, that he may depart from hell beneath. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">25</span>  The LORD will destroy the house of the proud: but he will establish the border of the widow. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">26</span>  The thoughts of the wicked are an abomination to the LORD: but the words of the pure are pleasant words. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">27</span>  He that is greedy of gain troubleth his own house; but he that hateth gifts shall live. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">28</span>  The heart of the righteous studieth to answer: but the mouth of the wicked poureth out evil things. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">29</span>  The LORD is far from the wicked: but he heareth the prayer of the righteous. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">30</span>  The light of the eyes rejoiceth the heart: and a good report maketh the bones fat. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">31</span>  The ear that heareth the reproof of life abideth among the wise. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">32</span>  He that refuseth instruction despiseth his own soul: but he that heareth reproof getteth understanding. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">33</span>  The fear of the LORD is the instruction of wisdom; and before honour is humility. <br>
## Chapter 16
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  The preparations of the heart in man, and the answer of the tongue, is from the LORD. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  All the ways of a man are clean in his own eyes; but the LORD weigheth the spirits. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  Commit thy works unto the LORD, and thy thoughts shall be established. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  The LORD hath made all things for himself: yea, even the wicked for the day of evil. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  Every one that is proud in heart is an abomination to the LORD: though hand join in hand, he shall not be unpunished. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  By mercy and truth iniquity is purged: and by the fear of the LORD men depart from evil. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  When a man's ways please the LORD, he maketh even his enemies to be at peace with him. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  Better is a little with righteousness than great revenues without right.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  A man's heart deviseth his way: but the LORD directeth his steps. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  A divine sentence is in the lips of the king: his mouth transgresseth not in judgment.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  A just weight and balance are the LORD's: all the weights of the bag are his work.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  It is an abomination to kings to commit wickedness: for the throne is established by righteousness. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  Righteous lips are the delight of kings; and they love him that speaketh right. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  The wrath of a king is as messengers of death: but a wise man will pacify it. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  In the light of the king's countenance is life; and his favour is as a cloud of the latter rain. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  How much better is it to get wisdom than gold! and to get understanding rather to be chosen than silver! <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  The highway of the upright is to depart from evil: he that keepeth his way preserveth his soul. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  Pride goeth before destruction, and an haughty spirit before a fall. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  Better it is to be of an humble spirit with the lowly, than to divide the spoil with the proud. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  He that handleth a matter wisely shall find good: and whoso trusteth in the LORD, happy is he. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  The wise in heart shall be called prudent: and the sweetness of the lips increaseth learning. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  Understanding is a wellspring of life unto him that hath it: but the instruction of fools is folly. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  The heart of the wise teacheth his mouth, and addeth learning to his lips. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">24</span>  Pleasant words are as an honeycomb, sweet to the soul, and health to the bones. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">25</span>  There is a way that seemeth right unto a man, but the end thereof are the ways of death. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">26</span>  He that laboureth laboureth for himself; for his mouth craveth it of him. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">27</span>  An ungodly man diggeth up evil: and in his lips there is as a burning fire. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">28</span>  A froward man soweth strife: and a whisperer separateth chief friends. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">29</span>  A violent man enticeth his neighbour, and leadeth him into the way that is not good. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">30</span>  He shutteth his eyes to devise froward things: moving his lips he bringeth evil to pass. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">31</span>  The hoary head is a crown of glory, if it be found in the way of righteousness.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">32</span>  He that is slow to anger is better than the mighty; and he that ruleth his spirit than he that taketh a city. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">33</span>  The lot is cast into the lap; but the whole disposing thereof is of the LORD.  <br>
## Chapter 17
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  Better is a dry morsel, and quietness therewith, than an house full of sacrifices with strife. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  A wise servant shall have rule over a son that causeth shame, and shall have part of the inheritance among the brethren. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  The fining pot is for silver, and the furnace for gold: but the LORD trieth the hearts. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  A wicked doer giveth heed to false lips; and a liar giveth ear to a naughty tongue. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  Whoso mocketh the poor reproacheth his Maker: and he that is glad at calamities shall not be unpunished. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  Children's children are the crown of old men; and the glory of children are their fathers. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  Excellent speech becometh not a fool: much less do lying lips a prince. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  A gift is as a precious stone in the eyes of him that hath it: whithersoever it turneth, it prospereth. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  He that covereth a transgression seeketh love; but he that repeateth a matter separateth very friends. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  A reproof entereth more into a wise man than an hundred stripes into a fool. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  An evil man seeketh only rebellion: therefore a cruel messenger shall be sent against him. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  Let a bear robbed of her whelps meet a man, rather than a fool in his folly. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  Whoso rewardeth evil for good, evil shall not depart from his house. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  The beginning of strife is as when one letteth out water: therefore leave off contention, before it be meddled with. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  He that justifieth the wicked, and he that condemneth the just, even they both are abomination to the LORD. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  Wherefore is there a price in the hand of a fool to get wisdom, seeing he hath no heart to it? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  A friend loveth at all times, and a brother is born for adversity. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  A man void of understanding striketh hands, and becometh surety in the presence of his friend. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  He loveth transgression that loveth strife: and he that exalteth his gate seeketh destruction. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  He that hath a froward heart findeth no good: and he that hath a perverse tongue falleth into mischief.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  He that begetteth a fool doeth it to his sorrow: and the father of a fool hath no joy. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  A merry heart doeth good like a medicine: but a broken spirit drieth the bones.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  A wicked man taketh a gift out of the bosom to pervert the ways of judgment.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">24</span>  Wisdom is before him that hath understanding; but the eyes of a fool are in the ends of the earth. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">25</span>  A foolish son is a grief to his father, and bitterness to her that bare him. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">26</span>  Also to punish the just is not good, nor to strike princes for equity. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">27</span>  He that hath knowledge spareth his words: and a man of understanding is of an excellent spirit. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">28</span>  Even a fool, when he holdeth his peace, is counted wise: and he that shutteth his lips is esteemed a man of understanding. <br>
## Chapter 18
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  Through desire a man, having separated himself, seeketh and intermeddleth with all wisdom. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  A fool hath no delight in understanding, but that his heart may discover itself.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  When the wicked cometh, then cometh also contempt, and with ignominy reproach. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  The words of a man's mouth are as deep waters, and the wellspring of wisdom as a flowing brook.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  It is not good to accept the person of the wicked, to overthrow the righteous in judgment.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  A fool's lips enter into contention, and his mouth calleth for strokes. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  A fool's mouth is his destruction, and his lips are the snare of his soul. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  The words of a talebearer are as wounds, and they go down into the innermost parts of the belly. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  He also that is slothful in his work is brother to him that is a great waster. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  The name of the LORD is a strong tower: the righteous runneth into it, and is safe. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  The rich man's wealth is his strong city, and as an high wall in his own conceit. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  Before destruction the heart of man is haughty, and before honour is humility. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  He that answereth a matter before he heareth it, it is folly and shame unto him. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  The spirit of a man will sustain his infirmity; but a wounded spirit who can bear? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  The heart of the prudent getteth knowledge; and the ear of the wise seeketh knowledge. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  A man's gift maketh room for him, and bringeth him before great men. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  He that is first in his own cause seemeth just; but his neighbour cometh and searcheth him. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  The lot causeth contentions to cease, and parteth between the mighty. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  A brother offended is harder to be won than a strong city: and their contentions are like the bars of a castle. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  A man's belly shall be satisfied with the fruit of his mouth; and with the increase of his lips shall he be filled. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  Death and life are in the power of the tongue: and they that love it shall eat the fruit thereof. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  Whoso findeth a wife findeth a good thing, and obtaineth favour of the LORD. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  The poor useth intreaties; but the rich answereth roughly. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">24</span>  A man that hath friends must shew himself friendly: and there is a friend that sticketh closer than a brother. <br>
## Chapter 19
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  Better is the poor that walketh in his integrity, than he that is perverse in his lips, and is a fool. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  Also, that the soul be without knowledge, it is not good; and he that hasteth with his feet sinneth.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  The foolishness of man perverteth his way: and his heart fretteth against the LORD.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  Wealth maketh many friends; but the poor is separated from his neighbour. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  A false witness shall not be unpunished, and he that speaketh lies shall not escape. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  Many will intreat the favour of the prince: and every man is a friend to him that giveth gifts. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  All the brethren of the poor do hate him: how much more do his friends go far from him? he pursueth them with words, yet they are wanting to him. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  He that getteth wisdom loveth his own soul: he that keepeth understanding shall find good. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  A false witness shall not be unpunished, and he that speaketh lies shall perish. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  Delight is not seemly for a fool; much less for a servant to have rule over princes. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  The discretion of a man deferreth his anger; and it is his glory to pass over a transgression. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  The king's wrath is as the roaring of a lion; but his favour is as dew upon the grass. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  A foolish son is the calamity of his father: and the contentions of a wife are a continual dropping. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  House and riches are the inheritance of fathers and a prudent wife is from the LORD. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  Slothfulness casteth into a deep sleep; and an idle soul shall suffer hunger. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  He that keepeth the commandment keepeth his own soul; but he that despiseth his ways shall die. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  He that hath pity upon the poor lendeth unto the LORD; and that which he hath given will he pay him again. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  Chasten thy son while there is hope, and let not thy soul spare for his crying. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  A man of great wrath shall suffer punishment: for if thou deliver him, yet thou must do it again. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  Hear counsel, and receive instruction, that thou mayest be wise in thy latter end. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  There are many devices in a man's heart; nevertheless the counsel of the LORD, that shall stand. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  The desire of a man is his kindness: and a poor man is better than a liar. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  The fear of the LORD tendeth to life: and he that hath it shall abide satisfied; he shall not be visited with evil.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">24</span>  A slothful man hideth his hand in his bosom, and will not so much as bring it to his mouth again. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">25</span>  Smite a scorner, and the simple will beware: and reprove one that hath understanding, and he will understand knowledge.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">26</span>  He that wasteth his father, and chaseth away his mother, is a son that causeth shame, and bringeth reproach.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">27</span>  Cease, my son, to hear the instruction that causeth to err from the words of knowledge. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">28</span>  An ungodly witness scorneth judgment: and the mouth of the wicked devoureth iniquity. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">29</span>  Judgments are prepared for scorners, and stripes for the back of fools. <br>
## Chapter 20
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  Wine is a mocker, strong drink is raging: and whosoever is deceived thereby is not wise. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  The fear of a king is as the roaring of a lion: whoso provoketh him to anger sinneth against his own soul. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  It is an honour for a man to cease from strife: but every fool will be meddling. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  The sluggard will not plow by reason of the cold; therefore shall he beg in harvest, and have nothing. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  Counsel in the heart of man is like deep water; but a man of understanding will draw it out. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  Most men will proclaim every one his own goodness: but a faithful man who can find? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  The just man walketh in his integrity: his children are blessed after him. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  A king that sitteth in the throne of judgment scattereth away all evil with his eyes. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  Who can say, I have made my heart clean, I am pure from my sin? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  Divers weights, and divers measures, both of them are alike abomination to the LORD. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  Even a child is known by his doings, whether his work be pure, and whether it be right. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  The hearing ear, and the seeing eye, the LORD hath made even both of them. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  Love not sleep, lest thou come to poverty; open thine eyes, and thou shalt be satisfied with bread. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  It is naught, it is naught, saith the buyer: but when he is gone his way, then he boasteth. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  There is gold, and a multitude of rubies: but the lips of knowledge are a precious jewel. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  Take his garment that is surety for a stranger: and take a pledge of him for a strange woman.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  Bread of deceit is sweet to a man; but afterwards his mouth shall be filled with gravel. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  Every purpose is established by counsel: and with good advice make war.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  He that goeth about as a talebearer revealeth secrets: therefore meddle not with him that flattereth with his lips.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  Whoso curseth his father or his mother, his lamp shall be put out in obscure darkness. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  An inheritance may be gotten hastily at the beginning; but the end thereof shall not be blessed. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  Say not thou, I will recompense evil; but wait on the LORD, and he shall save thee. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  Divers weights are an abomination unto the LORD; and a false balance is not good. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">24</span>  Man's goings are of the LORD; how can a man then understand his own way? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">25</span>  It is a snare to the man who devoureth that which is holy, and after vows to make enquiry. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">26</span>  A wise king scattereth the wicked, and bringeth the wheel over them. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">27</span>  The spirit of man is the candle of the LORD, searching all the inward parts of the belly. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">28</span>  Mercy and truth preserve the king: and his throne is upholden by mercy. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">29</span>  The glory of young men is their strength: and the beauty of old men is the gray head. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">30</span>  The blueness of a wound cleanseth away evil: so do stripes the inward parts of the belly. <br>
## Chapter 21
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  The king's heart is in the hand of the LORD, as the rivers of water: he turneth it whithersoever he will. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  Every way of a man is right in his own eyes: but the LORD pondereth the hearts. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  To do justice and judgment is more acceptable to the LORD than sacrifice. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  An high look, and a proud heart, and the plowing of the wicked, is sin. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  The thoughts of the diligent tend only to plenteousness; but of every one that is hasty only to want. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  The getting of treasures by a lying tongue is a vanity tossed to and fro of them that seek death. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  The robbery of the wicked shall destroy them; because they refuse to do judgment. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  The way of man is froward and strange: but as for the pure, his work is right.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  It is better to dwell in a corner of the housetop, than with a brawling woman in a wide house. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  The soul of the wicked desireth evil: his neighbour findeth no favour in his eyes.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  When the scorner is punished, the simple is made wise: and when the wise is instructed, he receiveth knowledge.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  The righteous man wisely considereth the house of the wicked: but God overthroweth the wicked for their wickedness. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  Whoso stoppeth his ears at the cry of the poor, he also shall cry himself, but shall not be heard. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  A gift in secret pacifieth anger: and a reward in the bosom strong wrath. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  It is joy to the just to do judgment: but destruction shall be to the workers of iniquity. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  The man that wandereth out of the way of understanding shall remain in the congregation of the dead. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  He that loveth pleasure shall be a poor man: he that loveth wine and oil shall not be rich. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  The wicked shall be a ransom for the righteous, and the transgressor for the upright. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  It is better to dwell in the wilderness, than with a contentious and an angry woman. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  There is treasure to be desired and oil in the dwelling of the wise; but a foolish man spendeth it up. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  He that followeth after righteousness and mercy findeth life, righteousness, and honour. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  A wise man scaleth the city of the mighty, and casteth down the strength of the confidence thereof. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  Whoso keepeth his mouth and his tongue keepeth his soul from troubles. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">24</span>  Proud and haughty scorner is his name, who dealeth in proud wrath. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">25</span>  The desire of the slothful killeth him; for his hands refuse to labour. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">26</span>  He coveteth greedily all the day long: but the righteous giveth and spareth not. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">27</span>  The sacrifice of the wicked is abomination: how much more, when he bringeth it with a wicked mind? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">28</span>  A false witness shall perish: but the man that heareth speaketh constantly. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">29</span>  A wicked man hardeneth his face: but as for the upright, he directeth his way. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">30</span>  There is no wisdom nor understanding nor counsel against the LORD. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">31</span>  The horse is prepared against the day of battle: but safety is of the LORD.  <br>
## Chapter 22
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  A good name is rather to be chosen than great riches, and loving favour rather than silver and gold.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  The rich and poor meet together: the LORD is the maker of them all.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  A prudent man foreseeth the evil, and hideth himself: but the simple pass on, and are punished. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  By humility and the fear of the LORD are riches, and honour, and life. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  Thorns and snares are in the way of the froward: he that doth keep his soul shall be far from them. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  The rich ruleth over the poor, and the borrower is servant to the lender. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  He that soweth iniquity shall reap vanity: and the rod of his anger shall fail. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  He that hath a bountiful eye shall be blessed; for he giveth of his bread to the poor. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  Cast out the scorner, and contention shall go out; yea, strife and reproach shall cease.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  He that loveth pureness of heart, for the grace of his lips the king shall be his friend. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  The eyes of the LORD preserve knowledge, and he overthroweth the words of the transgressor.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  The slothful man saith, There is a lion without, I shall be slain in the streets.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  The mouth of strange women is a deep pit: he that is abhorred of the LORD shall fall therein. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  Foolishness is bound in the heart of a child; but the rod of correction shall drive it far from him. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  He that oppresseth the poor to increase his riches, and he that giveth to the rich, shall surely come to want. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  Bow down thine ear, and hear the words of the wise, and apply thine heart unto my knowledge. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  For it is a pleasant thing if thou keep them within thee; they shall withal be fitted in thy lips. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  That thy trust may be in the LORD, I have made known to thee this day, even to thee. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  Have not I written to thee excellent things in counsels and knowledge, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  That I might make thee know the certainty of the words of truth; that thou mightest answer the words of truth to them that send unto thee? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  Rob not the poor, because he is poor: neither oppress the afflicted in the gate: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  For the LORD will plead their cause, and spoil the soul of those that spoiled them. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">24</span>  Make no friendship with an angry man; and with a furious man thou shalt not go: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">25</span>  Lest thou learn his ways, and get a snare to thy soul. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">26</span>  Be not thou one of them that strike hands, or of them that are sureties for debts. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">27</span>  If thou hast nothing to pay, why should he take away thy bed from under thee? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">28</span>  Remove not the ancient landmark, which thy fathers have set. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">29</span>  Seest thou a man diligent in his business? he shall stand before kings; he shall not stand before mean men. <br>
## Chapter 23
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  When thou sittest to eat with a ruler, consider diligently what is before thee: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  And put a knife to thy throat, if thou be a man given to appetite. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  Be not desirous of his dainties: for they are deceitful meat.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  Labour not to be rich: cease from thine own wisdom. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  Wilt thou set thine eyes upon that which is not? for riches certainly make themselves wings; they fly away as an eagle toward heaven.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  Eat thou not the bread of him that hath an evil eye, neither desire thou his dainty meats:  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  For as he thinketh in his heart, so is he: Eat and drink, saith he to thee; but his heart is not with thee. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  The morsel which thou hast eaten shalt thou vomit up, and lose thy sweet words. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  Speak not in the ears of a fool: for he will despise the wisdom of thy words. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  Remove not the old landmark; and enter not into the fields of the fatherless: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  For their redeemer is mighty; he shall plead their cause with thee. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  Apply thine heart unto instruction, and thine ears to the words of knowledge. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  Withhold not correction from the child: for if thou beatest him with the rod, he shall not die. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  Thou shalt beat him with the rod, and shalt deliver his soul from hell. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  My son, if thine heart be wise, my heart shall rejoice, even mine. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  Yea, my reins shall rejoice, when thy lips speak right things. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  Let not thine heart envy sinners: but be thou in the fear of the LORD all the day long. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  For surely there is an end; and thine expectation shall not be cut off. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  Hear thou, my son, and be wise, and guide thine heart in the way. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  Be not among winebibbers; among riotous eaters of flesh: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  For the drunkard and the glutton shall come to poverty: and drowsiness shall clothe a man with rags. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  Hearken unto thy father that begat thee, and despise not thy mother when she is old. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  Buy the truth, and sell it not; also wisdom, and instruction, and understanding. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">24</span>  The father of the righteous shall greatly rejoice: and he that begetteth a wise child shall have joy of him. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">25</span>  Thy father and thy mother shall be glad, and she that bare thee shall rejoice. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">26</span>  My son, give me thine heart, and let thine eyes observe my ways.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">27</span>  For a whore is a deep ditch; and a strange woman is a narrow pit. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">28</span>  She also lieth in wait as for a prey, and increaseth the transgressors among men.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">29</span>  Who hath woe? who hath sorrow? who hath contentions? who hath babbling? who hath wounds without cause? who hath redness of eyes?  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">30</span>  They that tarry long at the wine; they that go to seek mixed wine. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">31</span>  Look not thou upon the wine when it is red, when it giveth his colour in the cup, when it moveth itself aright. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">32</span>  At the last it biteth like a serpent, and stingeth like an adder. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">33</span>  Thine eyes shall behold strange women, and thine heart shall utter perverse things. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">34</span>  Yea, thou shalt be as he that lieth down in the midst of the sea, or as he that lieth upon the top of a mast. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">35</span>  They have stricken me, shalt thou say, and I was not sick; they have beaten me, and I felt it not: when shall I awake? I will seek it yet again. <br>
## Chapter 24
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  Be not thou envious against evil men, neither desire to be with them. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  For their heart studieth destruction, and their lips talk of mischief. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  Through wisdom is an house builded; and by understanding it is established: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  And by knowledge shall the chambers be filled with all precious and pleasant riches. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  A wise man is strong; yea, a man of knowledge increaseth strength. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  For by wise counsel thou shalt make thy war: and in multitude of counsellers there is safety. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  Wisdom is too high for a fool: he openeth not his mouth in the gate. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  He that deviseth to do evil shall be called a mischievous person. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  The thought of foolishness is sin: and the scorner is an abomination to men. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  If thou faint in the day of adversity, thy strength is small. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  If thou forbear to deliver them that are drawn unto death, and those that are ready to be slain; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  If thou sayest, Behold, we knew it not; doth not he that pondereth the heart consider it? and he that keepeth thy soul, doth not he know it? and shall not he render to every man according to his works? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  My son, eat thou honey, because it is good; and the honeycomb, which is sweet to thy taste:  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  So shall the knowledge of wisdom be unto thy soul: when thou hast found it, then there shall be a reward, and thy expectation shall not be cut off. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  Lay not wait, O wicked man, against the dwelling of the righteous; spoil not his resting place:  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  For a just man falleth seven times, and riseth up again: but the wicked shall fall into mischief.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  Rejoice not when thine enemy falleth, and let not thine heart be glad when he stumbleth: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  Lest the LORD see it, and it displease him, and he turn away his wrath from him. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  Fret not thyself because of evil men, neither be thou envious at the wicked; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  For there shall be no reward to the evil man; the candle of the wicked shall be put out. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  My son, fear thou the LORD and the king: and meddle not with them that are given to change: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  For their calamity shall rise suddenly; and who knoweth the ruin of them both? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  These things also belong to the wise. It is not good to have respect of persons in judgment. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">24</span>  He that saith unto the wicked, Thou are righteous; him shall the people curse, nations shall abhor him: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">25</span>  But to them that rebuke him shall be delight, and a good blessing shall come upon them. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">26</span>  Every man shall kiss his lips that giveth a right answer. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">27</span>  Prepare thy work without, and make it fit for thyself in the field; and afterwards build thine house. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">28</span>  Be not a witness against thy neighbour without cause; and deceive not with thy lips. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">29</span>  Say not, I will do so to him as he hath done to me: I will render to the man according to his work. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">30</span>  I went by the field of the slothful, and by the vineyard of the man void of understanding; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">31</span>  And, lo, it was all grown over with thorns, and nettles had covered the face thereof, and the stone wall thereof was broken down. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">32</span>  Then I saw, and considered it well: I looked upon it, and received instruction. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">33</span>  Yet a little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to sleep: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">34</span>  So shall thy poverty come as one that travelleth; and thy want as an armed man. <br>
## Chapter 25
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  These are also proverbs of Solomon, which the men of Hezekiah king of Judah copied out.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  It is the glory of God to conceal a thing: but the honour of kings is to search out a matter. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  The heaven for height, and the earth for depth, and the heart of kings is unsearchable.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  Take away the dross from the silver, and there shall come forth a vessel for the finer.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  Take away the wicked from before the king, and his throne shall be established in righteousness. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  Put not forth thyself in the presence of the king, and stand not in the place of great men: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  For better it is that it be said unto thee, Come up hither; than that thou shouldest be put lower in the presence of the prince whom thine eyes have seen. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  Go not forth hastily to strive, lest thou know not what to do in the end thereof, when thy neighbour hath put thee to shame. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  Debate thy cause with thy neighbour himself; and discover not a secret to another: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  Lest he that heareth it put thee to shame, and thine infamy turn not away. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  A word fitly spoken is like apples of gold in pictures of silver. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  As an earring of gold, and an ornament of fine gold, so is a wise reprover upon an obedient ear. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  As the cold of snow in the time of harvest, so is a faithful messenger to them that send him: for he refresheth the soul of his masters. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  Whoso boasteth himself of a false gift is like clouds and wind without rain. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  By long forbearing is a prince persuaded, and a soft tongue breaketh the bone. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  Hast thou found honey? eat so much as is sufficient for thee, lest thou be filled therewith, and vomit it. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  Withdraw thy foot from thy neighbour's house; lest he be weary of thee, and so hate thee. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  A man that beareth false witness against his neighbour is a maul, and a sword, and a sharp arrow. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  Confidence in an unfaithful man in time of trouble is like a broken tooth, and a foot out of joint. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  As he that taketh away a garment in cold weather, and as vinegar upon nitre, so is he that singeth songs to an heavy heart. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  If thine enemy be hungry, give him bread to eat; and if he be thirsty, give him water to drink: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  For thou shalt heap coals of fire upon his head, and the LORD shall reward thee. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  The north wind driveth away rain: so doth an angry countenance a backbiting tongue. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">24</span>  It is better to dwell in the corner of the housetop, than with a brawling woman and in a wide house.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">25</span>  As cold waters to a thirsty soul, so is good news from a far country. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">26</span>  A righteous man falling down before the wicked is as a troubled fountain, and a corrupt spring.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">27</span>  It is not good to eat much honey: so for men to search their own glory is not glory.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">28</span>  He that hath no rule over his own spirit is like a city that is broken down, and without walls. <br>
## Chapter 26
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  As snow in summer, and as rain in harvest, so honour is not seemly for a fool. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  As the bird by wandering, as the swallow by flying, so the curse causeless shall not come. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  A whip for the horse, a bridle for the ass, and a rod for the fool's back. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  Answer not a fool according to his folly, lest thou also be like unto him. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  Answer a fool according to his folly, lest he be wise in his own conceit.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  He that sendeth a message by the hand of a fool cutteth off the feet, and drinketh damage. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  The legs of the lame are not equal: so is a parable in the mouth of fools.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  As he that bindeth a stone in a sling, so is he that giveth honour to a fool.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  As a thorn goeth up into the hand of a drunkard, so is a parable in the mouth of fools. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  The great God that formed all things both rewardeth the fool, and rewardeth transgressors. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  As a dog returneth to his vomit, so a fool returneth to his folly. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  Seest thou a man wise in his own conceit? there is more hope of a fool than of him. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  The slothful man saith, There is a lion in the way; a lion is in the streets. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  As the door turneth upon his hinges, so doth the slothful upon his bed. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  The slothful hideth his hand in his bosom; it grieveth him to bring it again to his mouth. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  The sluggard is wiser in his own conceit than seven men that can render a reason. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  He that passeth by, and meddleth with strife belonging not to him, is like one that taketh a dog by the ears. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  As a mad man who casteth firebrands, arrows, and death, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  So is the man that deceiveth his neighbour, and saith, Am not I in sport? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  Where no wood is, there the fire goeth out: so where there is no talebearer, the strife ceaseth. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  As coals are to burning coals, and wood to fire; so is a contentious man to kindle strife. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  The words of a talebearer are as wounds, and they go down into the innermost parts of the belly. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  Burning lips and a wicked heart are like a potsherd covered with silver dross. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">24</span>  He that hateth dissembleth with his lips, and layeth up deceit within him; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">25</span>  When he speaketh fair, believe him not: for there are seven abominations in his heart. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">26</span>  Whose hatred is covered by deceit, his wickedness shall be shewed before the whole congregation. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">27</span>  Whoso diggeth a pit shall fall therein: and he that rolleth a stone, it will return upon him. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">28</span>  A lying tongue hateth those that are afflicted by it; and a flattering mouth worketh ruin.  <br>
## Chapter 27
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  Boast not thyself of to morrow; for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  Let another man praise thee, and not thine own mouth; a stranger, and not thine own lips.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  A stone is heavy, and the sand weighty; but a fool's wrath is heavier than them both. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  Wrath is cruel, and anger is outrageous; but who is able to stand before envy? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  Open rebuke is better than secret love. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  Faithful are the wounds of a friend; but the kisses of an enemy are deceitful. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  The full soul loatheth an honeycomb; but to the hungry soul every bitter thing is sweet. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  As a bird that wandereth from her nest, so is a man that wandereth from his place. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  Ointment and perfume rejoice the heart: so doth the sweetness of a man's friend by hearty counsel. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  Thine own friend, and thy father's friend, forsake not; neither go into thy brother's house in the day of thy calamity: for better is a neighbour that is near than a brother far off. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  My son, be wise, and make my heart glad, that I may answer him that reproacheth me. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  A prudent man foreseeth the evil, and hideth himself; but the simple pass on, and are punished. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  Take his garment that is surety for a stranger, and take a pledge of him for a strange woman. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  He that blesseth his friend with a loud voice, rising early in the morning, it shall be counted a curse to him. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  A continual dropping in a very rainy day and a contentious woman are alike. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  Whosoever hideth her hideth the wind, and the ointment of his right hand, which bewrayeth itself. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  Iron sharpeneth iron; so a man sharpeneth the countenance of his friend. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  Whoso keepeth the fig tree shall eat the fruit thereof: so he that waiteth on his master shall be honoured. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  As in water face answereth to face, so the heart of man to man. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  Hell and destruction are never full; so the eyes of man are never satisfied. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  As the fining pot for silver, and the furnace for gold; so is a man to his praise. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  Though thou shouldest bray a fool in a mortar among wheat with a pestle, yet will not his foolishness depart from him.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  Be thou diligent to know the state of thy flocks, and look well to thy herds. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">24</span>  For riches are not for ever: and doth the crown endure to every generation?  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">25</span>  The hay appeareth, and the tender grass sheweth itself, and herbs of the mountains are gathered.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">26</span>  The lambs are for thy clothing, and the goats are the price of the field. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">27</span>  And thou shalt have goats' milk enough for thy food, for the food of thy household, and for the maintenance for thy maidens. <br>
## Chapter 28
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  The wicked flee when no man pursueth: but the righteous are bold as a lion. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  For the transgression of a land many are the princes thereof: but by a man of understanding and knowledge the state thereof shall be prolonged. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  A poor man that oppresseth the poor is like a sweeping rain which leaveth no food. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  They that forsake the law praise the wicked: but such as keep the law contend with them. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  Evil men understand not judgment: but they that seek the LORD understand all things. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  Better is the poor that walketh in his uprightness, than he that is perverse in his ways, though he be rich. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  Whoso keepeth the law is a wise son: but he that is a companion of riotous men shameth his father. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  He that by usury and unjust gain increaseth his substance, he shall gather it for him that will pity the poor. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  He that turneth away his ear from hearing the law, even his prayer shall be abomination. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  Whoso causeth the righteous to go astray in an evil way, he shall fall himself into his own pit: but the upright shall have good things in possession. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  The rich man is wise in his own conceit; but the poor that hath understanding searcheth him out. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  When righteous men do rejoice, there is great glory: but when the wicked rise, a man is hidden. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  He that covereth his sins shall not prosper: but whoso confesseth and forsaketh them shall have mercy. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  Happy is the man that feareth alway: but he that hardeneth his heart shall fall into mischief. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  As a roaring lion, and a ranging bear; so is a wicked ruler over the poor people. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  The prince that wanteth understanding is also a great oppressor: but he that hateth covetousness shall prolong his days. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  A man that doeth violence to the blood of any person shall flee to the pit; let no man stay him.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  Whoso walketh uprightly shall be saved: but he that is perverse in his ways shall fall at once. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  He that tilleth his land shall have plenty of bread: but he that followeth after vain persons shall have poverty enough.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  A faithful man shall abound with blessings: but he that maketh haste to be rich shall not be innocent.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  To have respect of persons is not good: for for a piece of bread that man will transgress. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  He that hasteth to be rich hath an evil eye, and considereth not that poverty shall come upon him. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  He that rebuketh a man afterwards shall find more favour than he that flattereth with the tongue. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">24</span>  Whoso robbeth his father or his mother, and saith, It is no transgression; the same is the companion of a destroyer. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">25</span>  He that is of a proud heart stirreth up strife: but he that putteth his trust in the LORD shall be made fat. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">26</span>  He that trusteth in his own heart is a fool: but whoso walketh wisely, he shall be delivered. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">27</span>  He that giveth unto the poor shall not lack: but he that hideth his eyes shall have many a curse. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">28</span>  When the wicked rise, men hide themselves: but when they perish, the righteous increase. <br>
## Chapter 29
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  He, that being often reproved hardeneth his neck, shall suddenly be destroyed, and that without remedy. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  When the righteous are in authority, the people rejoice: but when the wicked beareth rule, the people mourn. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  Whoso loveth wisdom rejoiceth his father: but he that keepeth company with harlots spendeth his substance. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  The king by judgment establisheth the land: but he that receiveth gifts overthroweth it. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  A man that flattereth his neighbour spreadeth a net for his feet. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  In the transgression of an evil man there is a snare: but the righteous doth sing and rejoice. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  The righteous considereth the cause of the poor: but the wicked regardeth not to know it. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  Scornful men bring a city into a snare: but wise men turn away wrath. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  If a wise man contendeth with a foolish man, whether he rage or laugh, there is no rest. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  The bloodthirsty hate the upright: but the just seek his soul. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  A fool uttereth all his mind: but a wise man keepeth it in till afterwards.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  If a ruler hearken to lies, all his servants are wicked. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  The poor and the deceitful man meet together: the LORD lighteneth both their eyes.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  The king that faithfully judgeth the poor, his throne shall be established for ever.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  The rod and reproof give wisdom: but a child left to himself bringeth his mother to shame. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  When the wicked are multiplied, transgression increaseth: but the righteous shall see their fall. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  Correct thy son, and he shall give thee rest; yea, he shall give delight unto thy soul. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  Where there is no vision, the people perish: but he that keepeth the law, happy is he. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  A servant will not be corrected by words: for though he understand he will not answer. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  Seest thou a man that is hasty in his words? there is more hope of a fool than of him. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  He that delicately bringeth up his servant from a child shall have him become his son at the length. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  An angry man stirreth up strife, and a furious man aboundeth in transgression. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  A man's pride shall bring him low: but honour shall uphold the humble in spirit. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">24</span>  Whoso is partner with a thief hateth his own soul: he heareth cursing, and bewrayeth it not. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">25</span>  The fear of man bringeth a snare: but whoso putteth his trust in the LORD shall be safe. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">26</span>  Many seek the ruler's favour; but every man's judgment cometh from the LORD. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">27</span>  An unjust man is an abomination to the just: and he that is upright in the way is abomination to the wicked. <br>
## Chapter 30
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  The words of Agur the son of Jakeh, even the prophecy: the man spake unto Ithiel, even unto Ithiel and Ucal, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  Surely I am more brutish than any man, and have not the understanding of a man. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  I neither learned wisdom, nor have the knowledge of the holy. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  Who hath ascended up into heaven, or descended? who hath gathered the wind in his fists? who hath bound the waters in a garment? who hath established all the ends of the earth? what is his name, and what is his son's name, if thou canst tell? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  Every word of God is pure: he is a shield unto them that put their trust in him. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  Add thou not unto his words, lest he reprove thee, and thou be found a liar.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  Two things have I required of thee; deny me them not before I die: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  Remove far from me vanity and lies: give me neither poverty nor riches; feed me with food convenient for me:  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  Lest I be full, and deny thee, and say, Who is the LORD? or lest I be poor, and steal, and take the name of my God in vain. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  Accuse not a servant unto his master, lest he curse thee, and thou be found guilty. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  There is a generation that curseth their father, and doth not bless their mother. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  There is a generation that are pure in their own eyes, and yet is not washed from their filthiness. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  There is a generation, O how lofty are their eyes! and their eyelids are lifted up.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  There is a generation, whose teeth are as swords, and their jaw teeth as knives, to devour the poor from off the earth, and the needy from among men. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  The horseleach hath two daughters, crying, Give, give. There are three things that are never satisfied, yea, four things say not, It is enough:  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  The grave; and the barren womb; the earth that is not filled with water; and the fire that saith not, It is enough.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  The eye that mocketh at his father, and despiseth to obey his mother, the ravens of the valley shall pick it out, and the young eagles shall eat it. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  There be three things which are too wonderful for me, yea, four which I know not: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  The way of an eagle in the air; the way of a serpent upon a rock; the way of a ship in the midst of the sea; and the way of a man with a maid. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  Such is the way of an adulterous woman; she eateth, and wipeth her mouth, and saith, I have done no wickedness. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  For three things the earth is disquieted, and for four which it cannot bear: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  For a servant when he reigneth; and a fool when he is filled with meat; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  For an odious woman when she is married; and an handmaid that is heir to her mistress. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">24</span>  There be four things which are little upon the earth, but they are exceeding wise: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">25</span>  The ants are a people not strong, yet they prepare their meat in the summer; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">26</span>  The conies are but a feeble folk, yet make they their houses in the rocks; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">27</span>  The locusts have no king, yet go they forth all of them by bands; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">28</span>  The spider taketh hold with her hands, and is in kings' palaces. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">29</span>  There be three things which go well, yea, four are comely in going: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">30</span>  A lion which is strongest among beasts, and turneth not away for any; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">31</span>  A greyhound; an he goat also; and a king, against whom there is no rising up. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">32</span>  If thou hast done foolishly in lifting up thyself, or if thou hast thought evil, lay thine hand upon thy mouth. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">33</span>  Surely the churning of milk bringeth forth butter, and the wringing of the nose bringeth forth blood: so the forcing of wrath bringeth forth strife. <br>
## Chapter 31
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  The words of king Lemuel, the prophecy that his mother taught him. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  What, my son? and what, the son of my womb? and what, the son of my vows?  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  Give not thy strength unto women, nor thy ways to that which destroyeth kings. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  It is not for kings, O Lemuel, it is not for kings to drink wine; nor for princes strong drink:  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  Lest they drink, and forget the law, and pervert the judgment of any of the afflicted.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  Give strong drink unto him that is ready to perish, and wine unto those that be of heavy hearts. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  Let him drink, and forget his poverty, and remember his misery no more. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  Open thy mouth for the dumb in the cause of all such as are appointed to destruction. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  Open thy mouth, judge righteously, and plead the cause of the poor and needy. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  Who can find a virtuous woman? for her price is far above rubies. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  The heart of her husband doth safely trust in her, so that he shall have no need of spoil. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  She will do him good and not evil all the days of her life. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  She seeketh wool, and flax, and worketh willingly with her hands. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  She is like the merchants' ships; she bringeth her food from afar. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  She riseth also while it is yet night, and giveth meat to her household, and a portion to her maidens. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  She considereth a field, and buyeth it: with the fruit of her hands she planteth a vineyard. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  She girdeth her loins with strength, and strengtheneth her arms. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  She perceiveth that her merchandise is good: her candle goeth not out by night. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  She layeth her hands to the spindle, and her hands hold the distaff. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  She stretcheth out her hand to the poor; yea, she reacheth forth her hands to the needy. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  She is not afraid of the snow for her household: for all her household are clothed with scarlet. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  She maketh herself coverings of tapestry; her clothing is silk and purple. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  Her husband is known in the gates, when he sitteth among the elders of the land. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">24</span>  She maketh fine linen, and selleth it; and delivereth girdles unto the merchant. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">25</span>  Strength and honour are her clothing; and she shall rejoice in time to come.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">26</span>  She openeth her mouth with wisdom; and in her tongue is the law of kindness. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">27</span>  She looketh well to the ways of her household, and eateth not the bread of idleness.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">28</span>  Her children arise up, and call her blessed; her husband also, and he praiseth her.  <br><span style="font-size:larger;">29</span>  Many daughters have done virtuously, but thou excellest them all. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">30</span>  Favour is deceitful, and beauty is vain: but a woman that feareth the LORD, she shall be praised. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">31</span>  Give her of the fruit of her hands; and let her own works praise her in the gates. <br>