# 2 John

## Chapter 1
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  The elder unto the elect lady and her children, whom I love in the truth; and not I only, but also all they that have known the truth; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  For the truth's sake, which dwelleth in us, and shall be with us for ever. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  Grace be with you, mercy, and peace, from God the Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of the Father, in truth and love. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  I rejoiced greatly that I found of thy children walking in truth, as we have received a commandment from the Father. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  And now I beseech thee, lady, not as though I wrote a new commandment unto thee, but that which we had from the beginning, that we love one another. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  And this is love, that we walk after his commandments. This is the commandment, That, as ye have heard from the beginning, ye should walk in it. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  For many deceivers are entered into the world, who confess not that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh. This is a deceiver and an antichrist. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  Look to yourselves, that we lose not those things which we have wrought, but that we receive a full reward. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  Whosoever transgresseth, and abideth not in the doctrine of Christ, hath not God. He that abideth in the doctrine of Christ, he hath both the Father and the Son. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  If there come any unto you, and bring not this doctrine, receive him not into your house, neither bid him God speed: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  For he that biddeth him God speed is partaker of his evil deeds. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  Having many things to write unto you, I would not write with paper and ink: but I trust to come unto you, and speak face to face, that our joy may be full. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  The children of thy elect sister greet thee. Amen. <br>