# 3 John

## Chapter 1
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  The elder unto the wellbeloved Gaius, whom I love in the truth. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  Beloved, I wish above all things that thou mayest prosper and be in health, even as thy soul prospereth. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  For I rejoiced greatly, when the brethren came and testified of the truth that is in thee, even as thou walkest in the truth. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  I have no greater joy than to hear that my children walk in truth. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  Beloved, thou doest faithfully whatsoever thou doest to the brethren, and to strangers; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  Which have borne witness of thy charity before the church: whom if thou bring forward on their journey after a godly sort, thou shalt do well: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  Because that for his name's sake they went forth, taking nothing of the Gentiles. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  We therefore ought to receive such, that we might be fellowhelpers to the truth. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  I wrote unto the church: but Diotrephes, who loveth to have the preeminence among them, receiveth us not. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  Wherefore, if I come, I will remember his deeds which he doeth, prating against us with malicious words: and not content therewith, neither doth he himself receive the brethren, and forbiddeth them that would, and casteth them out of the church. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  Beloved, follow not that which is evil, but that which is good. He that doeth good is of God: but he that doeth evil hath not seen God. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  Demetrius hath good report of all men, and of the truth itself: yea, and we also bear record; and ye know that our record is true. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  I had many things to write, but I will not with ink and pen write unto thee: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  But I trust I shall shortly see thee, and we shall speak face to face. Peace be to thee. Our friends salute thee. Greet the friends by name. <br>