# Philemon

## Chapter 1
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  Paul, a prisoner of Jesus Christ, and Timothy our brother, unto Philemon our dearly beloved, and fellowlabourer, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  And to our beloved Apphia, and Archippus our fellowsoldier, and to the church in thy house: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  Grace to you, and peace, from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  I thank my God, making mention of thee always in my prayers, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  Hearing of thy love and faith, which thou hast toward the Lord Jesus, and toward all saints; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  That the communication of thy faith may become effectual by the acknowledging of every good thing which is in you in Christ Jesus. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  For we have great joy and consolation in thy love, because the bowels of the saints are refreshed by thee, brother. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  Wherefore, though I might be much bold in Christ to enjoin thee that which is convenient, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  Yet for love's sake I rather beseech thee, being such an one as Paul the aged, and now also a prisoner of Jesus Christ. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  I beseech thee for my son Onesimus, whom I have begotten in my bonds: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  Which in time past was to thee unprofitable, but now profitable to thee and to me: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  Whom I have sent again: thou therefore receive him, that is, mine own bowels: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  Whom I would have retained with me, that in thy stead he might have ministered unto me in the bonds of the gospel: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  But without thy mind would I do nothing; that thy benefit should not be as it were of necessity, but willingly. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  For perhaps he therefore departed for a season, that thou shouldest receive him for ever; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  Not now as a servant, but above a servant, a brother beloved, specially to me, but how much more unto thee, both in the flesh, and in the Lord? <br><span style="font-size:larger;">17</span>  If thou count me therefore a partner, receive him as myself. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">18</span>  If he hath wronged thee, or oweth thee ought, put that on mine account; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">19</span>  I Paul have written it with mine own hand, I will repay it: albeit I do not say to thee how thou owest unto me even thine own self besides. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">20</span>  Yea, brother, let me have joy of thee in the Lord: refresh my bowels in the Lord. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">21</span>  Having confidence in thy obedience I wrote unto thee, knowing that thou wilt also do more than I say. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">22</span>  But withal prepare me also a lodging: for I trust that through your prayers I shall be given unto you. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">23</span>  There salute thee Epaphras, my fellowprisoner in Christ Jesus; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">24</span>  Marcus, Aristarchus, Demas, Lucas, my fellowlabourers. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">25</span>  The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Amen. <br>