# Titus

## Chapter 1
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  Paul, a servant of God, and an apostle of Jesus Christ, according to the faith of God's elect, and the acknowledging of the truth which is after godliness; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  In hope of eternal life, which God, that cannot lie, promised before the world began; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  But hath in due times manifested his word through preaching, which is committed unto me according to the commandment of God our Saviour; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  To Titus, mine own son after the common faith: Grace, mercy, and peace, from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ our Saviour. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  For this cause left I thee in Crete, that thou shouldest set in order the things that are wanting, and ordain elders in every city, as I had appointed thee: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  If any be blameless, the husband of one wife, having faithful children not accused of riot or unruly. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  For a bishop must be blameless, as the steward of God; not selfwilled, not soon angry, not given to wine, no striker, not given to filthy lucre; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  But a lover of hospitality, a lover of good men, sober, just, holy, temperate; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  Holding fast the faithful word as he hath been taught, that he may be able by sound doctrine both to exhort and to convince the gainsayers. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  For there are many unruly and vain talkers and deceivers, specially they of the circumcision: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  Whose mouths must be stopped, who subvert whole houses, teaching things which they ought not, for filthy lucre's sake. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  One of themselves, even a prophet of their own, said, The Cretians are alway liars, evil beasts, slow bellies. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  This witness is true. Wherefore rebuke them sharply, that they may be sound in the faith; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  Not giving heed to Jewish fables, and commandments of men, that turn from the truth. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  Unto the pure all things are pure: but unto them that are defiled and unbelieving is nothing pure; but even their mind and conscience is defiled. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">16</span>  They profess that they know God; but in works they deny him, being abominable, and disobedient, and unto every good work reprobate. <br>
## Chapter 2
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  But speak thou the things which become sound doctrine: <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  That the aged men be sober, grave, temperate, sound in faith, in charity, in patience. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  The aged women likewise, that they be in behaviour as becometh holiness, not false accusers, not given to much wine, teachers of good things; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  That they may teach the young women to be sober, to love their husbands, to love their children, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  To be discreet, chaste, keepers at home, good, obedient to their own husbands, that the word of God be not blasphemed. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  Young men likewise exhort to be sober minded. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  In all things shewing thyself a pattern of good works: in doctrine shewing uncorruptness, gravity, sincerity, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  Sound speech, that cannot be condemned; that he that is of the contrary part may be ashamed, having no evil thing to say of you. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  Exhort servants to be obedient unto their own masters, and to please them well in all things; not answering again; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  Not purloining, but shewing all good fidelity; that they may adorn the doctrine of God our Saviour in all things. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  For the grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared to all men, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  Teaching us that, denying ungodliness and worldly lusts, we should live soberly, righteously, and godly, in this present world; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  Looking for that blessed hope, and the glorious appearing of the great God and our Saviour Jesus Christ; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  Who gave himself for us, that he might redeem us from all iniquity, and purify unto himself a peculiar people, zealous of good works. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  These things speak, and exhort, and rebuke with all authority. Let no man despise thee. <br>
## Chapter 3
<span style="font-size:larger;">1</span>  Put them in mind to be subject to principalities and powers, to obey magistrates, to be ready to every good work, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">2</span>  To speak evil of no man, to be no brawlers, but gentle, shewing all meekness unto all men. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">3</span>  For we ourselves also were sometimes foolish, disobedient, deceived, serving divers lusts and pleasures, living in malice and envy, hateful, and hating one another. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">4</span>  But after that the kindness and love of God our Saviour toward man appeared, <br><span style="font-size:larger;">5</span>  Not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us, by the washing of regeneration, and renewing of the Holy Ghost; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">6</span>  Which he shed on us abundantly through Jesus Christ our Saviour; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">7</span>  That being justified by his grace, we should be made heirs according to the hope of eternal life. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">8</span>  This is a faithful saying, and these things I will that thou affirm constantly, that they which have believed in God might be careful to maintain good works. These things are good and profitable unto men. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">9</span>  But avoid foolish questions, and genealogies, and contentions, and strivings about the law; for they are unprofitable and vain. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">10</span>  A man that is an heretick after the first and second admonition reject; <br><span style="font-size:larger;">11</span>  Knowing that he that is such is subverted, and sinneth, being condemned of himself. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">12</span>  When I shall send Artemas unto thee, or Tychicus, be diligent to come unto me to Nicopolis: for I have determined there to winter. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">13</span>  Bring Zenas the lawyer and Apollos on their journey diligently, that nothing be wanting unto them. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">14</span>  And let ours also learn to maintain good works for necessary uses, that they be not unfruitful. <br><span style="font-size:larger;">15</span>  All that are with me salute thee. Greet them that love us in the faith. Grace be with you all. Amen. <br>